
									Tamil Nadu to achieve carbon neutrality before India's 2070 target: Stalin								The goals also embrace ways to develop ways to mitigate the impact of climate change, access financial resources for adaptation, initiate climate education in educational institutions, focus on climate action for women and children, and adopt a 'One Health' approach that includes human, animal, and ecological health to understand health disruptions caused by climate change.

The council will provide policy guidance to the Tamil Nadu Climate Change Mission, provide advice on adaptation to climate change and mitigation of climate change impacts, formulate the Tamil Nadu State Climate Change Action Plan and provide appropriate guidelines for its implementation.The key goals of the Tamil Nadu Climate Change mission are to formulate plans to reduce overall greenhouse gas emissions in the state, increase the use of public transport, develop strategies to cut emissions by using green and renewable energy, increase forest cover, and manage waste effectively.As Tamil Nadu is a coastal state, the contribution of its Climate Change Movement will prove useful in facing the possible impact of climate change.chief minister said on Friday that the state is set to achieve carbon much ahead of the national target of 2070.

is set to become the first state to launch its own Mission.Leaders at the G20 conference in Bali last month decided to pursue efforts to keep the increase in global temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius and acknowledged the need to speed up initiatives to tackle climate change.

A Special Purpose Vehicle--the Tamil Nadu Green Climate Company (TNGCC)--will implement the State Climate Action Plan.

Stalin's government has also set up the Tamil Nadu Governing Council on Climate Change, the first such to be headed by a Chief Minister.“Climate change is the biggest challenge for humanity today.Let me assure you that Tamil Nadu will achieve carbon before that," Stalin said.

I believe this movement will help protect our environment and the lives of our future generations,” he added.

Stalin, who recently participated in the G20 preparatory meeting, assured full support towards fulfilling India’s climate commitments.Many scientists have said the world should reach carbon neutral by 2050.Last year in COP26 the Indian government declared that it will become carbon neutral by 2070.I see this as my life's mission," he said.

has occurred due to high carbon emissions.



									Fuel demand in India hits eight-month peak in November amid festivals								Sales of diesel, which account for about four-fifth of India's refined fuel demand, were up 19.1% from 2021 at 7.76 million tonnes, while sales of gasoline, or petrol, rose 8.1% at 2.86 million tonnes, the PPAC data showed.

Consumption of fuel, a proxy for oil demand, was 2.4% higher than the previous month, and rose 10.2% year-on-year to 18.84 million tonnes in November, according to the data from Indian oil ministry's Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC).

Cooking gas or liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) sales increased 5.2% to 2.47 million tonnes, while naphtha sales fell 18.2% to 1.01 million tonnes.

India's climbed to an eight-month high in November, government data released on Friday showed, as festivals and a pick-up in industrial activity boosted sales in the world's No. 3 oil consumer.

Sales of bitumen, used for making roads, rose 30.3% while fuel oil use edged up 8.4% in November.

(Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff; the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)The rise in diesel demand "points to a strong economy," said Ul Haq, noting a pick-up in private as well as public transport demand along with a recovery in demand from the agricultural sector after the monsoon season."Demand growth might slow slightly in the next few months as present expansion has been from a low base, but since the Indian economy is robust, we'll continue to see high consumption numbers," Ul Haq added.

"The has been supporting oil demand growth," said Refinitiv analyst Ehsan Ul Haq.





									All-India average wholesale prices of wheat up 22% so far this year: Govt								"Wheat production has declined marginally from 109.59 million tonnes in 2020-21 to 106.84 million tonnes in 2021-22 and the all-India yields of wheat declined in 2021-22 to 3,507 kilograms/hectare from 3,521 kg/hectare in 2020-21 due to severe heat wave during March and April, 2022 in major wheat growing states like Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan," the minister said.

The procurement of wheat in rabi market season (April-June) of 2022-23 fell to 187.92 lakh tonnes as against 433.44 lakh tonnes in 2021-22 as market price of wheat was higher than the ruling minimum support price during the period, he added.

(Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff; the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)In a written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said, "The prices of agricultural produce including wheat are determined by the demand and supply conditions in the market, international prices etc."



As per the data, all-India monthly average of wheat stood at Rs 2,228 per quintal in January, Rs 2,230 in February, Rs 2,339 in March, Rs 2,384 in April, Rs 2,352 in May, Rs 2,316 in June, Rs 2,409 in July, Rs 2,486 in August, Rs 2,516 in September, Rs 2,571 in October and Rs 2,721 per quintal in November.Average wholesale price of wheat rose 22 per cent across India to Rs 2,721 per quintal in November from Rs 2,228 per quintal in January this year, the government data showed.





									Govt seeks approval for Rs 4.36 trillion additional spending in FY23								The government has pegged the additional outgo for petroleum subsidy at Rs 24,944 crore, above the Budget allocation of Rs 5,812 crore, mostly for payments to OMCs under domestic LPG operations and providing LPG connections to poor households under the (PMUY).

The railways ministry, which has already exhausted 75 per cent of its Budget allocation for capex by October, has been provided additional Rs 12,000 crore for meeting additional expenditure under capital outlay on commercial lines.

The additional spending demands are dominated by fertiliser subsidy, food subsidy, payments to oil-marketing companies (OMCs) for domestic LPG operations, and funds towards the rural job guarantee scheme.

While Rs 9,951 crore has been sought for additional transfer of GST compensation cess to states and Union Territories, Rs 7,630 crore has been asked for additional revenue expenditure for defence services.The rural development ministry will receive around Rs 45,176 crore for additional expenditure towards the rural job guarantee scheme and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Rural.

Of the total Rs 1.09 trillion sought for fertiliser subsidy, Rs 23,122 crore has been allocated for P&K (phosphatic and potassic) and Rs 86,167 crore for urea.The additional allocation is meant to help insulate the farmers from the impact of a steep increase in the cost of fertilisers due to a sharp rise in international prices of fertilisers and raw materials.

The has sought Parliament’s approval for additional gross spending of Rs 4.36 trillion in FY23 through the first tranche of supplementary demands for grants.

The government's fertiliser subsidy will rise to Rs 2.3-2.5 trillion in this fiscal year but the bill may fall by 25 per cent in FY24 with moderation in global prices, the Fertilisers Association of India said on Tuesday.





The also sought additional expenditure of Rs 80,348 crore for food subsidy, including Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, which has been extended till December-end.Additionally, capex has been augmented by around Rs 31,000 crore, which should help ensure that the capex target is achieved,” she said.

While net cash outgo is pegged at Rs 3.26 trillion, the rest will be matched by savings or enhanced receipts.





									Govt picks 67 entries under PLI scheme for specialty steel, to create jobs								Some of the categories of specialty steel included in the scheme are coated/plated steel products, high strength/wear-resistant steel, specialty rails, alloy steel products, and steel wires, and electrical steel.

A total of 79 applications were received from 35 small and large steel-making companies with investment commitments totalling Rs 46,000 crore to add downstream capacity of 28 million tonnes (MT) by 2030, the steel ministry said in a statement.

Applicants include all major steel players like Tata Steel, JSW Steel, JSPL, AMNS India and SAIL, a senior steel ministry official had earlier told PTI.

The government has selected a total of 67 entries with an investment potential of Rs 42,500 crore under the production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for specialty steel.

The proposed investments are expected to generate 70,000 job opportunities and add 26 million tonnes of speciality steel capacity in the country.

This will attract committed investment of Rs 42,500 crore with a downstream capacity addition of 26 MT and employment generation potential of 70,000," the ministry said.

The Union Cabinet in July last year approved a Rs 6,322-crore to boost the production of speciality steel in India.





									Forex reserves at a three-month high; $11 billion added in a week								With the decline in the dollar index leading to strength in emerging market currencies like the rupee, the had likely started replenishing its foreign exchange reserves, analysts said.

The sharp increase in the was primarily on account of a jump in the RBI’s foreign assets, which climbed $9.7 billion to $496.98 billion in the previous week, latest data showed.

RBI’s reserves have declined sharply so far this year, partly due to dollar sales by the central bank as it sought to protect the rupee amid global headwinds.

The RBI’s reserves stood at $631.53 billion as on February 25, which was around the time Russia invaded Ukraine, sparking a global flight of investment to the safety of the dollar.

The Reserve Bank of India’s rose $11.02 billion to $561.16 billion in the week ended December 2, marking their highest levels since August 26.

In the week ended December 2, the rupee gained 0.45 per cent against the ending the week at 81.32 per dollar.Reserves worth $530 billion as on November 4 covered 8.6 months of imports projected for the current financial year, the RBI said last month.“I think apart from revaluation, might have bought the dollar because we see that in the previous week the dollar index has fallen.The large increase in reserves comes amid a steep decline in the index.

So, these are the two main things which have resulted in addition to forex reserves,” HDFC Securities research analyst Dilip Parmar said.

The index weakened around 6 per cent in November as data showing a larger-than-expected decline in led to expectation of the Federal Reserve slowing down the pace of its monetary tightening.





The data marks the fourth consecutive week in which the RBI’s reserves have risen.



									Two-wheeler companies get over 2-year breather on emission sensor								“The (requirement of) fixing sensors to assess the performance of the catalytic converter has been deferred to April 1, 2025,” said the official.

“In case, the rider gets a false alarm, the owner will unnecessarily get hassled and feel he or she has been short-changed by the manufacturer,” the official said.

A catalytic converter converts toxic gases and pollutants from an internal combustion engine into less toxic

pollutants.

Citing an example, he said that sometimes the OBD lamp (attached to the sensor) might start glowing even when the catalytic converter’s performance was as expected.

The official said extensive trials were carried out by various manufacturers, but the results were far from satisfactory.

An official at a two-wheeler firm, who declined to be identified, said, “The matter has been under discussion for some time.There’s no point in rolling it out if the system “is not foolproof”, he added.

Compliance with yet another regulation would have jacked up the prices of entry-level models by Rs 1,000-1,500 each, denting the sales further, said company executives.

This would have led to cost escalation,” he said.

The official, however, clarified that the manufacturers would still have to comply with the other requirements of the OBD II regulations.

This comes as a respite for the industry reeling from a protracted slowdown, as the move would have resulted in added costs.

The norm, part of the On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) phase II regulations for manufacturers of

and scooters, was to come into effect from April 1, 2023.Welcoming the decision, Sanjeev Vasdev, founder and MD, Flash Electronics, said, “I am very glad that the government has deferred this by two years.Flash is a manufacturer of electrical, electronics, gears and transmissions, and counts almost every two-wheeler maker in India as its customer.

The decision to defer the rule was arrived at after extensive stakeholder consultation, said the MoRTH official cited above.“It’s the only one (requirement) that has been deferred among a host of other things that are to be complied with,” he added.The two-wheeler industry has been witnessing a slowdown since 2018 due to the multiple cost increases that have come on the back of a slew of regulations.The government has deferred the regulatory requirement of deploying sensors on two-wheelers that can indicate whether the exhaust emission control device is functioning optimally.The time extension in Europe, too, is 2025.

It requires 35,000 kilometres of durability tests.

It would have otherwise been a big blow to the two-wheeler industry.”“It also would have required changes to be made to the design of the catalytic converter.



									YES Bank gets RBI nod to raise capital from Carlyle, Verventa Holdings								The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), on Friday, issued two letters to as the final go-ahead for its proposed capital raise plan from the Carlyle Group and Verventa Holdings, the bank said in a statement while informing the exchanges.

“We wish to hereby inform that the bank is now in receipt of two further letters (separate to each investor) from the in relation to the proposed investment,” it said.



									Finance ministry likely to target fiscal deficit of 5.5-6% in FY24 Budget								



									Bank of Baroda hikes MCLR up to 30 basis effective December 12								According to Reserve Bank of India data on the deposit side, the weighted average domestic term deposit rate on fresh and outstanding deposits increased by 150 basis points and 46 basis points respectively during May-October 2022.Its cost of deposits rose to 3.90 per cent at the end of the September 2022 quarter from 3.84 per cent a year ago.

This hike by the Mumbai-based lender is steeper than compared upto 15 basis points upward revision made in November 2022.

The six-month MCLR stands revised to 8.15 per cent from 7.90 per cent in November, BoB said.

Among others, the overnight rate has been raised to 7.50 per cent from 7.25 per cent earlier.The benchmark one-year tenor MCLR has been raised by 25 basis points to 8.30 per cent.lender (BoB) has decided to increase its marginal cost of funds-based (MCLR) by up to 30 basis points (bps) across tenors.The three-month MCLR has been raised to 8.05 per cent from 7.75 per cent in November.This reflects the effect of monetary tightening through the withdrawal of excess liquidity and hike in the policy repo rate.

This hike reflects the increase in cost of money as banks jack up term to attract funds to meet credit demand.



									State Bank's board to take call on raising capital via tier I bonds								The country's largest lender took a year to book the last Rs 1 lakh crore of advances, as against over 15 months for the previous Rs 1 lakh crore and over 30 months for the Rs 1 lakh crore before that.

has 22,309 branches, over 65,000 automated teller machines and 66,757 business correspondent outlets, which drive its entire retail banking franchise.

As per a regulatory filing, said it will seek "approval for raising of Additional Tier 1 (AT 1) capital by way of issuance of Basel III compliant debt instruments in INR and / or any other convertible currency through a public offer or private placement to Indian and / or overseas investors up to March 31, 2024.Earlier this week, announced that its personal banking advances, excluding high value home loans, have crossed the Rs 5 lakh crore-mark.

State Bank of India (SBI) said its board will meet on December 14 to decide on raising capital through .

Earlier in July, the board had approved raising up to Rs 11,000 crore through Basel-III compliant debt instruments."



The fundraise would help the bank grow its loan book.





									Forex reserves at a three-month high; $11 billion added in a week								With the decline in the dollar index leading to strength in emerging market currencies like the rupee, the had likely started replenishing its foreign exchange reserves, analysts said.

The sharp increase in the was primarily on account of a jump in the RBI’s foreign assets, which climbed $9.7 billion to $496.98 billion in the previous week, latest data showed.

RBI’s reserves have declined sharply so far this year, partly due to dollar sales by the central bank as it sought to protect the rupee amid global headwinds.

The RBI’s reserves stood at $631.53 billion as on February 25, which was around the time Russia invaded Ukraine, sparking a global flight of investment to the safety of the dollar.

The Reserve Bank of India’s rose $11.02 billion to $561.16 billion in the week ended December 2, marking their highest levels since August 26.

In the week ended December 2, the rupee gained 0.45 per cent against the ending the week at 81.32 per dollar.Reserves worth $530 billion as on November 4 covered 8.6 months of imports projected for the current financial year, the RBI said last month.“I think apart from revaluation, might have bought the dollar because we see that in the previous week the dollar index has fallen.The large increase in reserves comes amid a steep decline in the index.

So, these are the two main things which have resulted in addition to forex reserves,” HDFC Securities research analyst Dilip Parmar said.

The index weakened around 6 per cent in November as data showing a larger-than-expected decline in led to expectation of the Federal Reserve slowing down the pace of its monetary tightening.





The data marks the fourth consecutive week in which the RBI’s reserves have risen.



									ADB approves $250 mn policy-based loan to strengthen logistics sector								The loan will the first sub-program of the strengthening multimodal and integrated logistics ecosystem program, which supports the government's efforts to create a comprehensive policy, planning, and institutional framework at the federal, state, and city level, it said in a release.

The recently approved National Logistics Policy and the Prime Minister Gati Shakti National Master Plan provide transformative institutional and regulatory frameworks for holistic development of the logistics ecosystem in the country and lays the foundation for building a modern and efficient logistics sector, it added.

The program also supports the Ministry of Commerce and Industry's initiatives to issue standards for warehousing, which would encourage operational efficiency and private sector investment, the Manila-based multilateral lending institution said.

(Only the headline and picture of this report may have been reworked by the Business Standard staff; the rest of the content is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.)It further said the program will help to strengthen supply chains by simplifying external trade logistics and domestic cargo movements, modernising warehouses, improving business processes with integrated digital platforms, and stimulating private investments in the sector.





									Revised RBI guidelines on securitisation likely to impact short-term loans								Overall, the new norms are unlikely to disrupt the market as these short-tenured loans constituted only 5 per cent of the total volume in H1FY23.


