In Pics | Goa’s Mopa International Airport to be inaugurated on December 11, here’s the first lookThe existing Dabolim airport has the capacity to handle 85 lakh passengers in a year, but it does not have the facility for cargo transportation, which is available at the new airport, CM Sawant had said on December 5, adding both airports will co-exist.(Image Source: Moneycontrol)

The New Goa International, or the Mopa airport, has been built at a cost of Rs 2,870 crore on 2,312 acres by GMR Group’s special purpose vehicle Goa International Airport (GGIAL).Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on December 11 inaugurate the state's second international airport at Mopa in North Goa and the facility airport will begin operations on January 5, 2023.(Image Source: Moneycontrol)

Budget carrier Go First on December 9 also announced 42 non-stop weekly flights to and from the airport, effective January 5.On December 8, IndiGo announced 12 daily and a total of 168 weekly new flights to and from the Mopa airport, effective from January 5.The Mopa airport, the second in the state, is expected to service tourist traffic to the generally more popular North Goa.According to Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, the Mopa airport would be able to handle up to 44 lakh passengers per annum in the first phase and one crore when it is completed.(Image Source: Moneycontrol)

With scenic beaches, breathtaking forts, glamorous casinos and nightclubs, Goa is without a doubt one of the most popular tourist destinations in the country.At present, 70 flights land daily at the Dabolim airport.Once the Mopa facility is operational, the number of flights landing in the state is expected to jump up to 150.The state already has an airport in Dabolim in the south.(Image Source: Moneycontrol)




Daily Voice | Earnings, interest rates key factors influencing equity markets, says Hemant Kanawala of Kotak Mahindra LifeHemant Kanawala of Kotak Mahindra Life

"Earnings and interest rates will be the key factors influencing equity markets going ahead," said Hemant Kanawala of Kotak Mahindra Life Insurance Company in an interview to Moneycontrol.

Although valuations have normalised on an absolute basis over the last one year as markets are flat, they continue to look expensive relative to fixed income as interest rates have increased by more than 75 basis points (bps) during this period.



Are you gung-ho on the capital goods and defence spaces?

In other segments, one needs to be company-specific as it has been observed that the company which launches new products is able to garner market share and consequently has a strong earnings cycle.

With respect to inflation, a key variable to watch for will be the opening up of the Chinese economy and its impact on the supply chain and demand, says the Senior Executive Vice President with more than 15 years of experience in fund management.Although valuations are above average and hence upside may be limited in the near term, medium-term prospects of the sector look promising.

A fair amount of traction is seen in these segments on the back of reforms announced by the government, like reduction in corporate taxes, production linked incentive (PLI) schemes, and indigenisation of defence procurement.

However, they are watching the situation closely and will respond to evolving dynamics in the geopolitical situation, the monetary policy of major central banks, and other local factors.

"Normalisation of the supply chain will mitigate inflation, but release of pent-up demand in China can impact inflation adversely," he added.One key variable to watch for with respect to inflation will be the opening of the Chinese economy and its impact on the supply chain and demand.Will the US Federal Reserve be able to declare victory over inflation by the end of the financial year?

Edited excerpts of the interview:

What are the key factors that can influence equity markets?Normalisation of the supply chain will mitigate inflation, but the release of pent-up demand in China can impact inflation adversely.Also, as discussed above, opening up of the Chinese economy may help global growth and Indian exports.

However, there is expectation of a pick-up in consumption due to a good Rabi crop and a strong marriage season.

After the last Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting, the RBI Governor informed that satisfactory progress has been made on controlling inflation, and that they expect inflation to come below 6 percent next year.Any disappointment on that front will be the main headwind for the market, he says.

Hence, commentary of IT companies following Q3FY23 earnings will need to be monitored.

Do you think the Reserve Bank of India would pause interest rate hikes from February?

Any disappointment on that front will be the main headwind for the market.

Do you see a major correction in the IT space after Q3FY23 earnings?

This has to some extent reduced the inflated expectation from the sector.

The full impact of the same is likely to be felt over the next few quarters.

In auto, which segments do you prefer as all are not on the same plane?

Earnings and interest rates will be the key factors influencing equity markets.Any red flags after the September quarter?

Is it looking overvalued now?

The sector’s performance will continue to be influenced by the commentary on US growth as there is strong linkage between the revenue growth of Indian IT and the US and European economies.






Market snaps 2-week rally but 33 small-caps gain 10-46%During this week, BSE Small-cap and Large-cap indices lost 1 percent each, while BSE Mid-cap index lost 0.8 percent.

Among sectors, Nifty Information Technologies index shed 6 percent, Nifty Realty index fell 3.4 percent, while Nifty Energy, Pharma, and Media indices down 2 percent each.

The BSE Sensex fell 686.83 points or 1.09 percent to close at 62,181.67 and the Nifty50 shed 112.75 points or 1.06 percent to end at 18,496.6 levels during the week.

Bears overpowered bulls and rattled the street, driving the market down from its life-time high in the week ended December 9, and the benchmark indices lost over 1 percent.

On the other hand, Nifty PSU Bank index added 4.7 percent and Nifty FMCG index rose 2.2 percent.

Globally, markets are awaiting the US FOMC rate hike action and commentary in their scheduled meeting next week,” he said.

More than the rate hike, investors would be more interested in knowing about the forward looking statement on inflation and rate decision going ahead.

The BSE Small-cap index lost 1 percent, dragged by Easy Trip Planners, Unichem Laboratories, Likhitha Infrastructure, Vakrangee, Rail Vikas Nigam, Accelya Kale Solutions, Ajmera Realty and Infra India, GE Power India, Faze Three, Cerebra Integrated Technologies, Brightcom Group, Vimta Labs, Greenpanel Industries, CreditAccess Grameen and Intellect Design Arena.

The recent trend indicates that markets may continue to exhibit intra-day volatility as investors keenly await the outcome of the US Fed's decision on interest rate next week.Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) sold equities worth Rs 4,305.97 crore, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) pumped in Rs 3,712.08 crore.

However, Optiemus Infracom, Punjab & Sind Bank, SEPC, Central Bank of India, RACL Geartech, TruCap Finance and Kamdhenu added 20-46 percent.

Amol Athawale, Deputy Vice President - Technical Research, Kotak Securities

Profit taking was back in action as investors dumped IT, metal and realty stocks, even as benchmark Sensex still managed to end above the psychological level of 62000 mark.Additionally, the US and UK will be making their interest rate announcements, which will keep the global markets active.

Oil prices saw a sharp decline this week.

On the flip side, below 20 day SMA or 18,450, further sell off is possible till 18,300-18,200.

The yield is now below 3.5 percent, compared to a high of 4.22 percent in November 2022.Ajit Mishra, VP - Technical Research, Religare Broking:

Indications are in the favour of prevailing consolidation to continue and sustainability above 18,300 in Nifty is critical to maintain the positive tone.On the other hand, BSE FMGC, BSE Capital Goods and BSE Bankex saw marginal gains,” said Shrikant Chouhan, Head of Equity Research (Retail), Kotak Securities.

Traders should plan their positions accordingly.

Representative image.

Key indices like BSE Sensex, Nifty 50, BSE Midcap and BSE Smallcap ended the week in the red.Where is Nifty50 headed?

Apurva Sheth, Head of Market Perspectives, Samco Securities.

“Equity markets in India posted negative returns this week.For short-term traders, the 20-day SMA (Simple Moving Average) or 18,450 would act as a sacrosanct support zone, above which, we could expect a one pullback rally till 18,700.

The BSE IT, BSE Healthcare and BSE Power indices reported sharp declines this week.Domestic markets reacted to 35bps repo rate hike by the the RBI.The three large economies—the US, the UK, and India—will each disclose their inflation rate.The upcoming week has a host of important events lined up.


'Very poor' air quality in Delhi; minimum temp at 8.3 degrees CelsiusAn AQI between 201 and 300 is considered ’poor’, 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 ’severe’.

As pollution levels in the capital surged to severe levels on Sunday, the Commission for Air Quality Management directed authorities in Delhi-NCR to implement curbs under stage 3 of the Graded Response Action Plan, including a ban on non-essential construction work.

Delhi on Saturday recorded "very poor” air quality and a minimum temperature of 8.3 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal.

Mist and shallow fog are predicted in the capital over the next few days and the mercury is likely to dip to 6 degrees Celsius by December 16, it said.

The maximum temperature is likely to settle at 27 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said.The city recorded an air quality index of 337 at 9 am.


Want to grow your career in SMEs? Network morePut yourself out there—on social media, in meetings and industry bodies, etc—so that people know you and your ideas

Most Indians have been brought up to believe in “Karmanyeva Adhikaraste”, which roughly translates to “you should do your duty.”Delivering on the goals—you may know them as KPI, KRA, OKC, or something else—is critical.

One can argue and nit-pick that differences in culture, region, type of industry, etc affect the weightage but these are anecdotal weightages the three aspects have.

Many of them are open to one-on-one queries and conversations through direct messages—a Bengaluru-based techie had stuck a friendship with Elon Musk through Twitter.

E for Exposure—who knows you in your organisation?

I for Impression, which is about one’s brand— what other people think of you.

Does anybody else inside and outside the organisation know about the work done by you?

Here are some thoughts for you to consider for growth:

1 Embrace networking and social media sites.Other aspects that help build exposure are meetings, staying connected with different sets of stakeholders, reaching out to offer help or ask for help and stepping outside the boundaries set by the organisation.They believe in manufacturing the best products but, in turn, neglect the importance of marketing by assuming that the product will speak for itself.

P for Performance, which is about the day-to-day work one is tasked with and the quality of results that one delivers.

Have your PIE and eat it too

For those who work in SMEs, career progression has always been a sore issue.When most LinkedIn profiles are about inflated self-glory, mentioning your real achievements in a simple form will be inadequate for standing out in the crowd.

When you write about something, you realise how little you know and how much more knowledge is out there.

It is called the PIE model after the first letters of the three elements it is based on.

The impression holds another 30 percent weightage.

A similar sense of confidence holds for products as well.

3You can use it to improve yourself through exposure.

You need to be courageous enough to share it with others.

It is not just about gaining an identity or recognition; it is also about learning and building a halo.

It can be gained not just by registering as a member but through active participation.

For business leaders, it allows them to discuss, learn and understand multiple concepts—decision-making, budget allocation, expansion in new markets and innovation.It is a mindset that encourages people to keep performing to get what they deserve—a mindset often seen in founders of small and medium enterprises (SMEs).The biggest piece of the pie is “Exposure”, a whopping 60 percent weightage.





If you are one of those people who believe that hard work can take you places, you need to rethink.Of course, they need to join these social media platforms.People do pay some attention to their personal brand and understand why it is important.On social media, you do not need to impress a publisher.Improving your visibility and having a strong public profile is good for you, your career, your business and the others involved in your business.You can write a journal too, but that will only serve to improve your expression and understanding, not get exposure.How can you gain exposure and enjoy the lion’s share of the PIE?Even introverts can connect asynchronously using social media.They can network with people whose work interests them.This provides renewed personal insights and broadens perspectives on the current role, and expands your developmental horizons.The beauty of volunteering is that it gets appreciated by the industry body and it can bring in much-needed connections.Harvey Coleman, in his book Empowering Yourself, The Organizational Game Revealed introduced a concept called PIE, which may be a good guideline to follow.However, performance counts for only 10 percent of the pie in the PIE theory.It is a great medium of exposure in several ways.Be active in professional bodies that are of your interest and industry.These can be a major source to gain exposure.However, self-promotion based on facts can be highly effective.This also helps in bringing the attention of important stakeholders.


Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | How globalisation has changed the game of footballPolicy

Not done with rate hikes yet

Policy rates to remain high through 2023

Real policy rates well below pre-pandemic levels

Import checks: Quality on lips, China on mind

The face-off between the Government and the Supreme Court on the collegium

Memo from PMI numbers to the MPC: beware of core inflation

DESH Bill—implementation delayed is investment denied

Global chip wars and why policy makers need to keep an eye on them

Banks shouldn’t ask for tax breaks

How farmers can grab a bigger slice of the agriculture value chain

Geopolitics

The Eastern Window: China, Russia looking for fissures in US-EU unity

Xi Jinping’s Saudi visit takes aim at US influence in the Middle East

Geopolitics an emerging frontier for companies’ investment canvas

The emerging contours of US-China hegemonic competition

Politics

BJP’s outstanding win in Gujarat overshadows the Himachal and Delhi MCD reversals

Companies and industry

Slowdown signs gather pace for IT services companies

Others

GuruSpeak: A call centre employee’s journey to trading success

Of mules and foxes and security laws violations

Personal Finance: Who needs a travel budget anywayMaking sense of OPEC’s decision

Macro signals for sector allocation and the other way around

Economy

India’s manufacturing growth fastest in the world in November

Bank credit to big industry picks up steam

Economic Recovery Tracker

Global food inflation heads for a fall

Impact of rising interest rates on US government finances

Consumer confidence back to pre-pandemic levels

And when good football happens, I give thanks for the miracle, and I don't give a damn which team or country performs it.’

Happy watching,

Manas Chakravarty

Here are some of the stories and insights we published this week, apart from our technical picks in the equity, forex and commodity markets:

Stocks

Karur Vysya Bank, Vijay Diagnostics, EID Parry, Bosch, Trent, NOCIL, Coforge, Borosil Renewables, KIMS, Engineers India, Dabur India, Five-Star Business Finance, Weekly tactical pick, Sirca Paints, Balrampur Chini Mills

Markets

Is the market on a weak footing despite touching new highs?

The structural shift to gig jobs

Financial Times

Ruchir Sharma: The easy money era is over but world leaders haven’t got the memo

Germany confronts a broken business model

Bond markets point to Fed standing firm in battle against inflation

Storage is one of the least sexy words around.Representative imge (Source: AP)

Dear Reader,

In the midst of all the talk about de-globalisation and the world splitting up into power blocs, the ongoing football World Cup is a shining example of the benefits of globalisation.The answer may be in a 2017 paper titled ‘Convergence vs The Middle Income Trap: the case of global soccer’, which says that ‘the process of catch-up by adoption reaches its limits at the transition to world class performance levels, when teams have to build up their own long-term talent development techniques and playing styles.’In the words of Eduardo Galeano, Latin American journalist, football lover and author of the brilliant ‘Football in Sun and Shadow—an emotional history of World Cup football’: ‘The more the technocrats programme it down to the smallest detail, the more the powerful manipulate it, football continues to be the art of the unforeseeable.When you least expect it, the impossible occurs: the dwarf teaches the giant a lesson, and a scraggy, bow-legged black man makes an athlete sculpted in Greece look ridiculous.’

This argument mirrors that in development economics, where a debate has been raging over the convergence of incomes, or whether less developed nations are catching up with the advanced economies.

Also, this year there’s only one new team, Morocco, which has found a place in the last eight--Croatia had reached the quarter finals in 2002 and 2006.



Of course, most of us watching the World Cup don’t care a hoot about its economics.Morocco, which is in the last eight, is an extreme example---more than half its players are from its diaspora.

In his recent statement on monetary policy, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das pointed out that remittances to India this year are expected to rise to $100 billion.

Similarly, in the US, other sports such as American football and basketball dominate.

On the other hand, because of the restrictions placed on who can compete in national teams, the quality of the weaker national teams has improved, because many of their players have honed their skills by playing for the best international clubs.It is truly a global game.

During the last World Cup, fans of Neymar and Messi battled each other with machetes in a town in Bangladesh.

After Morocco’s 2-0 win over Belgium, riots broke out in several cities in Belgium and Holland, targeting immigrants.

That’s a problem.



As Jim O’Neill, former Goldman Sachs chairman, said, ‘The selection of South Africa in 2010, Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022 to host the world's most watched sporting event was clearly based on the rise of emerging economies.’Its thesis is that while the free movement of players between clubs improves the quality of the game, it also leads to a concentration of talent among the top clubs, increasing inequality of performance among clubs.The flip side of the exodus of talent to the rich clubs of Europe is that local teams are left with second class players, poor facilities, and loss-making clubs.Some have called it a ‘leg drain’, akin to the ‘brain drain’---the beeline of technically qualified personnel to the richer nations.In the 2022 World Cup, the African teams are the biggest beneficiaries of immigration, with many of their players being born in other nations, especially countries in Europe.Back in 2003, the economist Branko Milanovic, then with the World Bank, wrote a paper titled ‘Globalization and goals: does soccer show the way?’National teams include many players born outside the country they are playing for.As a result, Milanovic said ‘the quality differences between national teams seem to be getting smaller.In other words, good teams hit the same ceiling that many middle-income economies have reached---they are unable to transition to the top ranks.Over 70 percent of the players in the World Cup play for clubs outside their home countries.The World Cup draws record global audiences, with 31 million TV viewers for the first 19 matches in India alone, a country that hasn’t even qualified for the tournament.The 2022 World Cup has seen the exits of strong teams such as Germany and Spain before the quarter finals.Of course, the pre-requisite is that, for a national team to attain any degree of excellence, there must be a passion for the sport in the home country.He also said that unlike in the past, there were at least two new teams that made it to the quarter finals in recent years.Foreign nationals own prominent football clubs, which in many cases have global assets.Fans and viewers have been able to watch the best teams in action and club loyalties are now global.As Eduardo Galeano said, ‘I go about the world, hand outstretched, and in the stadiums I plead, 'A pretty move, for the love of God.'In other words, the weaker national teams are catching up with the stronger.In a country like India, the level of effective demand for cricket is far higher than for football.But beginning with 1982, the maximum difference was 1.25, and the average difference was one goal.’The biggest link between football and economics is, of course, money.Could it be that convergence in football performance has lost steam?Sponsors are from all over the world -- Chinese sponsors have spent $835 million for the event and India’s Byju’s is a sponsor.


Refine trade entry and exit with Options Open Interest: Shubham AgarwalTrade Exit:

For Bullish Bets:

Exit = Sustained Break below Heaviest Put Strike (Means the consensus of the Stock can not go lower than Strike has been invalidated).Most Option Sellers Expecting of Stock/ Index Price not going Lower than Stike by the Expiry

How does one get help in trading from this?

Now let us make 1 + 1 = 2.

More Open Interest =We will discuss how such consensus depicted by the open interest data can help in figuring out the best entry and exit parameters.

Lower Probability of stop loss being hit supported by large number of option sellers

2.Higher the Open Interest means higher Participation into the future or option instrument.

More Sellers in Option = More confident Sellers of the Option Expiring Worthless (Only then they would make money)

High Open Interest in Call =Thus, we refine our trades using Options Open Interest in 2 ways:

1.When we are eying a pull back,

Entry = Stock getting closer to Heaviest Put (Considering there is a reason in place for Buying).Most Option Sellers Expecting of Stock/ Index Price not going Higher than Stike by the Expiry

High Open Interest in Put =For Bullish Bets:

Exit = Sustained Break above Heaviest Call Strike (Means the consensus over the highest the stock can go has been invalidated).Trade Entry:

For Bullish Bets we want the stock to go higher.This will help you device a trade with minimal potential loss.

Absolute loss amount would always be very less but with continuation of trend profits could be much higher.

:Entry point could be close to heaviest Put.

Entry point could be close to heaviest Call.

When we are eying a respite (move back up after hitting the lows).

It has worked really well empirically.





Now let us see the best part of this Options Open interest assisted trade entry and exits.Consider this, Buyer 1 and Seller 1 create a future or option contract by transacting with each other.Open Interest is a simple accounting information about futures and options, yet a powerful tool to figure out many of the traders’ secrets.Now if there is new interest, Buyer 2 and Seller 2 come along.Entry = Stock getting closer to Heaviest Call (Considering there is a reason in place for Selling).The entries are generally about a percent or so away from the Heaviest Open Interest strike (be it a call or a put).The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts on Moneycontrol.com are their own and not those of the website or its management.Likewise, there would be no open interest without option sellers.Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions.


Gujarat polls: Most Congress turncoats win on BJP ticketAlpesh Thakor, who had resigned as Congress MLA from Radhanpur seat in 2019 but was defeated in the byelection, managed to win from Gandhinagar South this time by a comfortable margin of more than 33,000 votes.Jawahar Chavda, who had resigned as a Congress MLA in March 2019 and won the subsequent byelection on BJP ticket, was defeated on his home turf of Manavadar by Congress’s Arvind Ladani by around 3,000 votes.Kakadiya, re-elected in 2020 byelection after resigning from Congress, retained the seat by defeating AAP’s Shambhu Satasiya by around 9,000 votes.Bavaliya, on the other hand, defeated his nearest AAP rival Tejas Gajipara by a slim margin of more than 1,000 votes.

Rajendrasinh Rathva, who contested on the BJP ticket from the constituency of his father Mohansinh Rathva after the father-son duo resigned from Congress to join the ruling party, defeated Congress’s Sangramsinh Rathwa by 29,000 votes.Koli leader Kunvarji Bavaliya won from Jasdan seat which he had retained in the byelection after resigning from Congress in July 2018.Among other turncoats, Akshay Patel retained Karjan seat which he had also won in the 2020 byelection after resigning from Congress.Another turncoat Jitu Chaudhary won Kaprada seat by defeating his nearest rival from Congress, Vasant Patel by 32,000 votes.He defeated Congress’s Jat Mamad Jung by a margin of over 9,000 votes.

Gujarat Assembly Elections 2022

Most former Congress leaders who switched over to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) managed to win the 2022 Gujarat Assembly elections.Among Congress turncoats who were rejected by the electorate were Harshad Ribadiya who lost to the AAP’s Bhupendra Bhayani, and Ashvin Kotwal who was defeated by veteran tribal Congress leader Tushar Chaudhary in Khedbrahma.

Raulji had quit the Congress before the 2017 Assembly elections and won Godhra on BJP ticket.

Patel defeated AAP’s Amarsinh Thakor by more than 51,000 votes.

Vaghela was fielded from another seat then but lost.

In the just concluded elections, the BJP won 156 seats, the highest by any party in Gujarat’s history, while the Congress came a distant second with 17 seats.Former Congress MLA from Abdasa, Pradyumansinh Jadeja, who had quit the party in 2020 to join the BJP and won the ensuing byelection, was reOf these 14, all but three won the election on Thursday.

In at least three cases, their direct challengers were candidates of the new entrant Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and those from Congress.

Harshad Ribadiya, a former Congressman who joined the BJP, was defeated by AAP’s Bhupendra Bhayani in Visavadar.

After he joined the BJP, the ruling party fielded him against Mevani from Vadgam in 2022, but Vaghela lost this time too.Kotwal had joined the BJP after resigning as Congress MLA in May this year and the seat was vacant.Raghavji Patel retained his Jamnagar Rural seat by defeating the AAP’s Prakash Donga.In some cases, their victory was aided by a split in votes between the AAP and Congress, data provided by the Election Commission shows.Otherwise, former Patidar agitation leader Hardik Patel won from Viramgam as a BJP candidate.Former Congress MLA Manilal Vaghela had been replaced by Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani in Vadgam seat in 2017.C K Raulji retained Godhra seat.


Mandous weakens into deep depression after crossing coast in Tamil NaduCyclone Mandous

Cyclonic storm Mandous which crossed the coast at Mamallapuram near here has weakened into a deep depression but the weather system impacted the city and its neighbourhoods, uprooting a number of trees.

Over 9,000 persons have been lodged in 205 relief centres, he added According to the city police, nearly 100 trees fell in different parts of the metro and 52 have been removed in coordination with its personnel.To move nearly west-northwestwards and gradually weaken into a depression by noon of 10th december," the IMD Chennai said in a tweet.

"The cyclonic storm Mandous (meaning treasure box) weakened into a deep depression over north Tamil Nadu coast.Power remained suspended in many parts of the city and the surroundings.

Tamil Nadu Revenue and Disaster Management Minister KKSSR Ramachandran, citing initial estimates, said there was no major damage as expected.

Power poles fell down in five locations and three had been cleared.




Market snaps 2-week gaining steak, PSU banks outperformIndian equity market snapped the two-week gaining momentum and lost 1 percent in a volatile week ended December 9 amid policy rate hiked by the RBI, FII selling, the BJP's victory in Gujarat, falling crude oil prices, better US PMI data and the jobs data and anticipation of rate hike by Fed in the coming week.Among sectors, the Nifty Information Technologies index shed 6 percent, the Nifty Realty index fell 3.4 percent, while the Nifty Energy, Pharma, and Media indices were down 2 percent each.For the week, the BSE Sensex fell 686.83 points or 1.09 percent to close at 62,181.67 and the Nifty50 shed 112.75 points or 1.06 percent to end at 18,496.6 levels.

On the other hand, the Nifty PSU Bank index added 4.7 percent and the Nifty FMCG index rose 2.2 percent.Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) sold equities worth Rs 4,305.97 crore of equities, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) bought equities worth of Rs 3,712.08 crore.

The BSE Small-cap index lost 1 percent dragged by Easy Trip Planners, Unichem Laboratories, Likhitha Infrastructure, Vakrangee, Rail Vikas Nigam, Accelya Kale Solutions, Ajmera Realty and Infra India, GE Power India, Faze Three, Cerebra Integrated Technologies, Brightcom Group, Vimta Labs, Greenpanel Industries, CreditAccess Grameen and Intellect Design Arena.The BSE Large-cap Index shed nearly 1 percent dragged by the LTIMindtree, HCL Technologies, Tech Mahindra, Zomato, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company and Tata Motors.BSE Mid-cap Index fell 0.86 percent.However, Bank of Baroda, Siemens, Godrej Consumer Products, Punjab National Bank, Hindustan Unilever and Interglobe Aviation added 4-10 percent.

However, Optiemus Infracom, Punjab and Sind Bank, SEPC, Central Bank of India, RACL Geartech, TruCap Finance and Kamdhenu added 20-46 percent.

Losers included Persistent Systems, MphasiS, L&T Technology Services, Bharat Heavy Electricals, Oberoi Realty and Oracle Financial Services Software, while gainers were Bank Of India, Indian Overseas Bank, Godrej Industries, Cummins India, The Ramco Cementsand AU Small Finance Bank.

Among BSE Sensex, Reliance Industries lost the most in terms of market cap followed by Tata Consultancy Services, Infosys and HCL Technologies.


Top Cryptocurrency Prices Today December 10: Major cryptos in red; Ether down 2%, Polkadot top laggardAlso Read | Inside the frantic texts exchanged by crypto executives as FTX collapsed

In other news, initiatives to gather data on crypto need to be undertaken quickly before any regulations are formed so that "wrong set of prescriptions" are not issued, a top Indian central banker has said.

The volume of all stable coins is now $31.93 billion, which is 93.55 percent of the total crypto market 24-hour volume.

The total volume in DeFi is currently $1.83 billion, which is 5.36 percent of the total crypto market 24-hour volume.The total crypto market volume over the last 24 hours is $34.13 billion, which makes a 9.32 percent decrease.

Representative image

Major cryptocurrencies traded in the red early on December 10 as the global crypto market cap decreased 0.65 percent to $854.00 billion, over the last day.NAME PRICE (INR) 24H Bitcoin 14,40,001 -0.75% Ethereum 1,06,601.1 -2.19% Tether 84.78 -0.51% Cardano 26.5001 -2.21% Binance Coin 24,252.00 -0.2% XRP 32.4190 -2.35 Polkadot 450 -2.8% Dogecoin 8.2498 -2.12%

As of 8:24 am on December 10, these are the prices of the top cryptocurrencies (data from WazirX):Find more blockchain business and market related stories here


Kerala Governor supports bringing Uniform Civil CodeCommenting on the Shah Bano case, Khan, who quit the Congress in 1986 because of his differences with the leadership over its handling of the issue, said he stands by his views.”

"I had said that making a law is not a big deal, law can be changed by Parliament in the future… but the people who speak against the country, people who support violence, bowing to them was a crime against the nation according to me,” he said.

Asked about his opinion on the Uniform Civil Code on Friday, he said, "Anyone who has sworn to the Constitution will not say that it should not come.”

"The Hindu code is already there, did it bring uniformity in Hindus, Sikhs and Jains?I congratulate her and wish her success and hope government will not interfere in her work,” he said.

Khan, who was recently removed from the post of the Chancellor of the Kerala Kalamandalam deemed university and replaced by Mallika Sarabhai, said he has congratulated his successor, and hoped the state government would not interfere in her work.

"Before 1947, they said there are two nations, in 1986 the successors of that line of thought said we have a separate identity.There are institutions that allow hijab, one can go there,” he said.

Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan has supported bringing a Uniform Civil Code and said anyone who has sworn to the constitution will never oppose it.

I will not name anyone,” he said.

We are a country of diversity,” Khan said in a media event.Asked if it was appeasement politics, he said it was appeasement of a certain section as the community at large only suffered because of it.Asked if he was being targeted by the state government, he said, "There are 15 universities and I am the Chancellor.On the recent controversy around hijab, he said, "Who is stopping from wearing a burqa?There is no change in my thoughts,” he added.

"Uniform civil code is not about marriages or customs… It is about equal justice.”Give me one instance when I interfered in the work of the government, and I will give my resignation."But institutions also have the right to have their dress code.


Fuel Prices on December 10: Check petrol, diesel rates in Delhi, Mumbai and other citiesMoneycontrol Pro Weekender | How globalisation has changed the game of footballPolicy

Not done with rate hikes yet

Policy rates to remain high through 2023

Real policy rates well below pre-pandemic levels

Import checks: Quality on lips, China on mind

The face-off between the Government and the Supreme Court on the collegium

Memo from PMI numbers to the MPC: beware of core inflation

DESH Bill—implementation delayed is investment denied

Global chip wars and why policy makers need to keep an eye on them

Banks shouldn’t ask for tax breaks

How farmers can grab a bigger slice of the agriculture value chain

Geopolitics

The Eastern Window: China, Russia looking for fissures in US-EU unity

Xi Jinping’s Saudi visit takes aim at US influence in the Middle East

Geopolitics an emerging frontier for companies’ investment canvas

The emerging contours of US-China hegemonic competition

Politics

BJP’s outstanding win in Gujarat overshadows the Himachal and Delhi MCD reversals

Companies and industry

Slowdown signs gather pace for IT services companies

Others

GuruSpeak: A call centre employee’s journey to trading success

Of mules and foxes and security laws violations

Personal Finance: Who needs a travel budget anywayMaking sense of OPEC’s decision

Macro signals for sector allocation and the other way around

Economy

India’s manufacturing growth fastest in the world in November

Bank credit to big industry picks up steam

Economic Recovery Tracker

Global food inflation heads for a fall

Impact of rising interest rates on US government finances

Consumer confidence back to pre-pandemic levels

And when good football happens, I give thanks for the miracle, and I don't give a damn which team or country performs it.’

Happy watching,

Manas Chakravarty

Here are some of the stories and insights we published this week, apart from our technical picks in the equity, forex and commodity markets:

Stocks

Karur Vysya Bank, Vijay Diagnostics, EID Parry, Bosch, Trent, NOCIL, Coforge, Borosil Renewables, KIMS, Engineers India, Dabur India, Five-Star Business Finance, Weekly tactical pick, Sirca Paints, Balrampur Chini Mills

Markets

Is the market on a weak footing despite touching new highs?

The structural shift to gig jobs

Financial Times

Ruchir Sharma: The easy money era is over but world leaders haven’t got the memo

Germany confronts a broken business model

Bond markets point to Fed standing firm in battle against inflation

Storage is one of the least sexy words around.Representative imge (Source: AP)

Dear Reader,

In the midst of all the talk about de-globalisation and the world splitting up into power blocs, the ongoing football World Cup is a shining example of the benefits of globalisation.The answer may be in a 2017 paper titled ‘Convergence vs The Middle Income Trap: the case of global soccer’, which says that ‘the process of catch-up by adoption reaches its limits at the transition to world class performance levels, when teams have to build up their own long-term talent development techniques and playing styles.’In the words of Eduardo Galeano, Latin American journalist, football lover and author of the brilliant ‘Football in Sun and Shadow—an emotional history of World Cup football’: ‘The more the technocrats programme it down to the smallest detail, the more the powerful manipulate it, football continues to be the art of the unforeseeable.When you least expect it, the impossible occurs: the dwarf teaches the giant a lesson, and a scraggy, bow-legged black man makes an athlete sculpted in Greece look ridiculous.’

This argument mirrors that in development economics, where a debate has been raging over the convergence of incomes, or whether less developed nations are catching up with the advanced economies.

Also, this year there’s only one new team, Morocco, which has found a place in the last eight--Croatia had reached the quarter finals in 2002 and 2006.



Of course, most of us watching the World Cup don’t care a hoot about its economics.Morocco, which is in the last eight, is an extreme example---more than half its players are from its diaspora.

In his recent statement on monetary policy, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das pointed out that remittances to India this year are expected to rise to $100 billion.

Similarly, in the US, other sports such as American football and basketball dominate.

On the other hand, because of the restrictions placed on who can compete in national teams, the quality of the weaker national teams has improved, because many of their players have honed their skills by playing for the best international clubs.It is truly a global game.

During the last World Cup, fans of Neymar and Messi battled each other with machetes in a town in Bangladesh.

After Morocco’s 2-0 win over Belgium, riots broke out in several cities in Belgium and Holland, targeting immigrants.

That’s a problem.



As Jim O’Neill, former Goldman Sachs chairman, said, ‘The selection of South Africa in 2010, Brazil in 2014, Russia in 2018, and Qatar in 2022 to host the world's most watched sporting event was clearly based on the rise of emerging economies.’Its thesis is that while the free movement of players between clubs improves the quality of the game, it also leads to a concentration of talent among the top clubs, increasing inequality of performance among clubs.The flip side of the exodus of talent to the rich clubs of Europe is that local teams are left with second class players, poor facilities, and loss-making clubs.Some have called it a ‘leg drain’, akin to the ‘brain drain’---the beeline of technically qualified personnel to the richer nations.In the 2022 World Cup, the African teams are the biggest beneficiaries of immigration, with many of their players being born in other nations, especially countries in Europe.Back in 2003, the economist Branko Milanovic, then with the World Bank, wrote a paper titled ‘Globalization and goals: does soccer show the way?’National teams include many players born outside the country they are playing for.As a result, Milanovic said ‘the quality differences between national teams seem to be getting smaller.In other words, good teams hit the same ceiling that many middle-income economies have reached---they are unable to transition to the top ranks.Over 70 percent of the players in the World Cup play for clubs outside their home countries.The World Cup draws record global audiences, with 31 million TV viewers for the first 19 matches in India alone, a country that hasn’t even qualified for the tournament.The 2022 World Cup has seen the exits of strong teams such as Germany and Spain before the quarter finals.Of course, the pre-requisite is that, for a national team to attain any degree of excellence, there must be a passion for the sport in the home country.He also said that unlike in the past, there were at least two new teams that made it to the quarter finals in recent years.Foreign nationals own prominent football clubs, which in many cases have global assets.Fans and viewers have been able to watch the best teams in action and club loyalties are now global.As Eduardo Galeano said, ‘I go about the world, hand outstretched, and in the stadiums I plead, 'A pretty move, for the love of God.'In other words, the weaker national teams are catching up with the stronger.In a country like India, the level of effective demand for cricket is far higher than for football.But beginning with 1982, the maximum difference was 1.25, and the average difference was one goal.’The biggest link between football and economics is, of course, money.Could it be that convergence in football performance has lost steam?Sponsors are from all over the world -- Chinese sponsors have spent $835 million for the event and India’s Byju’s is a sponsor.


Business in the Week Ahead (December 12–16, 2022)Indian stock benchmarks continued to remain range bound witnessing a time-wise correction but any major signs of recovery have been delayed by weak global cues.In a clear hint that the Fed will continue with tightening, chair Jay Powell signalled that interest rates will be raised by 50 basis points at this month’s meeting which is lower than 75 bps hike last...Asian markets too had a mixed week as worries about recession continued despite October inflation numbers showing some signs of improvement.


Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Propping up valuations through buybacks no substitute for good performanceBanks shouldn’t ask for tax breaks, but sell more in the countryside

How farmers can grab a bigger slice of the agriculture value chain

The emerging contours of US-China hegemonic competition

BJP’s outstanding win in Gujarat overshadows the Himachal and Delhi MCD reversals

Macro signals for sector-allocation and the other way around

Storage is one of the least sexy words around.Investing insights from our research team

Weekly tactical pick: Campus Activewear poised to improve earnings

Sirca Paints: Great progress on all fronts

Balrampur Chini Mills:Preparing for the next growth phase

What else are we reading?

Personal Finance: Who needs a travel budget anyway?

Employers must accept this — the earlier the better

Why have Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh responded differently to Narendra Modi's appeal?

Technical Picks: Federal Bank, NMDC, Navkar Corporation, and ICICI Bank (These are published every trading day before markets open and can be read on the app).Although share prices could well fall back to the pre-buyback level once the process ends, especially if the underlying ills causing low valuations are deep-rooted.

However, it does have sizeable cash on its books: Rs 1908 crore in current investments and Rs 5237 crore in cash and bank balances.

Paytm’s cash flow statement shows it has seen an outflow on the free cash flow from operations front (net cash from operating activities less fixed asset investments) of Rs 162 crore in the half year ended September 30.Paytm’s decision to buy back shares too appears to be one more effort by listed startups trying to support their fallen share prices.

That can give an upward and more lasting push to valuations compared to the temporary sugar rush a buyback can provide.

The size of the buyback and price will give a clearer picture of what the management is seeking to achieve.

It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.

However, buybacks mean cash flowing out and if the business requires more cash, then that could mean raising fresh equity.The business should have matured to a level where the cash required to grow the business in the long run is less than the surplus being generated.And, when the 1-year lock-in for pre-IPO investors ended, a selling spree saw shares fall further in anticipation of a coming flood of share sales.The broader question remains of what is the right time for a company to buy back shares and whether company managements should be taking a view on the stock price at all.Done for the right reasons, a buyback is a useful tool to return cash and improve valuations.Paytm’s share price is already up by 6 percent at noon, although details about the quantum and price per share will be known after its board meeting on December 13.Dear Reader,

The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days.The fundamentals too did not justify the bonus, as we had pointed out recently.

Gig is big in jobs — Is the shift transient or permanent?

Fininfluencers | Existing regulations enough to rein in fraudsters

Dissent is not disloyalty.While startups may have turned a bit cautious in the current environment, it will be a matter of time before they will invest to grow the business or respond to competition.Many of these startups listed when valuations were booming and PE/VC investors accurately called the top, although IPO investors were left holding the can.Representative image.

That’s a problem (Republished from the FT)

While there are legal conditions to be met, such as debt to equity not exceeding certain limits and a time-gap between two buybacks, from a financial standpoint some conditions are good to have.If a company’s stock is undervalued, then by lowering the equity and net worth, valuations could get some support.Another time-tested option to return money to shareholders and shore up valuations are buybacks.Nykaa’s bonus shares and then a modified record date that made it difficult for shareholders to sell after the lock-in expired also caused controversy.It would appear that the buyback is more of a tool to support valuations.


High prices see migration of farmers to wheat from other crops

Also Read: Wheat export doubles to $1.48 billion in April-September

Prices see a surge

The market price of wheat has shot up to Rs 28 per kg, up by Rs 6-7 from the level a few months ago.Though it banned wheat export from May and wheat flour export from August, shipments were allowed on a limited scale to meet the food security needs of the other countries as wheat export from Ukraine and Russia slowed after the outbreak of war between the two countries.

At 72,39,367 tonnes, worth Rs 15,840 crore, wheat export for FY22 saw a rise of close to 250 percent in volumes and around 300 percent increase in value from the previous year.

Representative Image

High wheat prices in the country, despite export restrictions, have led to a substantial increase in the acreage for the cereal for the next harvest.

Why export restrictions on a limited scale

A sharp increase in prices, following heavy export of shipments and lower crop, has prompted the government to restrict exports.“But the government is carrying on shipments through its agencies or select exporters based on the global requirement as provided by the director-general of foreign trade (DGFT),’’ said Man Prakash Vijay, DGM, Agricultural & Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA).

The quantity and value have grown by 43 percent and 78 percent year on year (YoY).

Going by the trend in sowing, which is expected to be completed by January, wheat production is anticipated to surge next year, provided weather holds good.

According to market reports, wheat acreage is up by over 400 percent from last year in several states as farmers are increasingly shifting from other crops, perhaps attracted by the steep rise in prices.In spite of the restrictions, the total wheat export in FY23 could still be higher than the previous year, though growth may be slower as global demand is still high for the cereal.We have been forced to hike the retail prices of our products, ‘’ said Ashish Khandelwal, MD of BL Agro Ltd, a major producer of wheat products.

Lower output, coupled with rising global demand, following the war between Russia and Ukraine -- two major wheat exporters – have pushed up prices sharply, forcing India to restrict exports.In 2021-22, wheat crop, at 106.84 million tonnes (MT), was lower by around 3 percent from the previous year.According to Khandelwal, the buffer stock is down by almost 60 percent and the prices may not decline in the short term, despite the forecast of a bumper crop for the next season.

Wheat product makers, who were earlier resisting a price hike, have been left with no option.

“There has been a 30-35 percent rise in wheat price in the last two months.Wheat procurement by FCI plunged by 56 percent to 18.8 MT in 2022-23.It could go for more procurement from farmers,’’ said Ritesh Agarwal, director of Pannalal Exports.

“We are expecting production to go up by 50 percent next year as sowing has been very high.Higher wheat output is expected to push up procurement by the Food Corporation of India (FCI).India exported 46,55,944 tonnes of wheat from April-October 2022 worth Rs 11,725 crore.


Storage is one of the least sexy words around. That’s a problemOur “Brexit cupboard” was intended to protect us in case there were disruptions to trade after the UK left the EU on January 31.In January 2020, the Harford family filled a spare cupboard with pasta and tinned food.As I pointed out to my wife, it was probably pointless: any issues would be minor and were more likely to affect perishables than pasta.Still: the Brexit cupboard cost little and afforded some gallows humour, so why not?FT and Financial Times are trademarks of the Financial Times Limited Not to be redistributed, copied or modified in any way.

Dec 9, 2022 / 01:31 PM ISTAll Rights Reserved.


Why have Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh responded differently to Narendra Modi's appeal?(Image: Twitter/File)

Prime Minister Narendra Modi made it a point at every rally to urge voters to give a record haul of seats for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to mark 27 years of BJP rule in Gujarat so that he can continue his work in Delhi.

So when Modi went on appealing to voters to give a record fresh mandate to the party, he was not dealing with a number of factors that had bedevilled the previous leadership.

So when Modi chose to criss-cross Gujarat, addressing numerous rallies, road shows, and connecting with the voters far and near, the BJP got a big boost.

Modi wanted to show that the highest number of 149 seats secured by the Congress under Madhavsinh Solanki in 1985 was on the basis of a crafted social-political alliance called KHAM (Kshartriyas, Harijans, Adivasis, and Muslims).



However, the voters in Himachal Pradesh, perhaps, knew how to distinguish between the assembly polls and the Lok Sabha elections.So they decided that they must give the chance to the Congress to come to power — because of its promises like the OPS, better deal for the apple crop, and a great measure of goodies.

Modi, while speaking after the victory, said, that the BJP won "because the BJP has managed to secure votes beyond the rural-urban divide or caste arithmetic”.

Also, Modi cannot retrieve the situation for the BJP when its rivals like the Congress come up with such tall electoral promises including the return of the Old Pension Scheme (OPS) at the cost of good economics.

So emotional was his appeal that a wave of sorts enabled the BJP achieve a record-breaking victory, winning 156 of the 182 assembly seats in the state.But when Modi tried a similar emotional appeal and sought to strike a chord with the voters in Himachal Pradesh, they seemed to be not as enthusiastic as voters in Gujarat.Even if Modi is the BJP's best bet to attract votes, there seemed to be certain preconditions for his appeal to work.

But it got translated into a higher number of seats for the former to form the next government.

Nevertheless, Modi made his appeal to the Himachal Pradesh voters.

Unlike in Gujarat where there was a lot of planning and management to back up Modi's campaign, Himachal Pradesh presented a different scenario.

Simply remember the lotus…If you see ‘kamal ka phool’ while casting your vote, understand that this is the BJP, this is Modi who has come to you.Nadda's decision not to patch up the Dhumal camp saw the latter's supporters turning against the official BJP candidates.

Your every vote for ‘kamal ka phool’ will come directly to Modi’s account as a blessing.”Their entrepreneurial instincts warned them about the conventional wisdom that there are no free lunches.

True, Modi's connection with Gujarat voters is much stronger than with the voters in Himachal Pradesh.The BJP has secured a record by winning 156 of the 182 seats on the basis of a development agenda.Modi's campaign is not of big help in situations where there is a spike in factionalism within the BJP and senior leaders cannot bury their hatchet for the sake of elections.That is why these elections have shown the limitations as well as the advantages of a Modi-led campaign in the assembly polls.

After all, he was Chief Minister for 13 years before he moved to Delhi to become Prime Minister on the strength of his creating a ‘Gujarat model’ of governance.Modi does enjoy a far greater trust, loyalty, and an almost cult-like following in Gujarat, which is his home state.In terms of popular vote, however, the Congress managed to get less than one percent of votes more than the BJP.Interestingly, the voters of Gujarat rejected Arvind Kejriwal’s freebie formula.Modi's aggressive campaign for the BJP saw a less-active Congress and an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which just could not match the BJP’s momentum.Weeks of hype about AAP's ability to eat into votes of the BJP in urban areas seemed to lose fervour.PM Narendra Modi had cast his vote during phase 2 of Gujarat elections.


Dissent is not disloyalty. Employers must accept this — the earlier the betterIn a business environment, where employees and internal stakeholders, as well as consumers are getting younger as large proportion of your interactions, can you afford not to be accepting of differences?

Won’t a ‘business as usual’ attitude cost you long-term business survival?

Would not an environment where only silent-spectators survive, and consenters thrive encourage sycophancy?In today’s volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous (VUCA) business world, which is increasingly becoming intensely competitive, and where the survival of the business has no legacy to guide or support to seek from, being inward-looking or having only ‘yes-sir’ voices within the business is a big blind spot.

Don’t almost all of the transformative initiatives such as professionalising the business, succession planning, and improving organisational/corporate/family governance require competent differing voices?

Dissent And Loyalty

As much as the leadership strategies have shifted to notice and accept the beneficial aspects of dissent, the (corporate) cultural moorings remain that disagreement or dissent is disloyal.This value-based behaviour from employers/leaders, shared understanding, system, and processes would make employees/subordinates feel safe and encouraged to speak up, share ideas, and hold team members accountable.

In the world of business, it is not always clear which is a better solution, and often there are not enough resources to assess and luxury to delay the decision.

It worked well historically in a less dynamic and competitive world, where the insights within the family and its relationships with authority were the key engines for growth, profits, and risk mitigation.

Risk Of Not Embracing Dissent

If it’s about leaving a legacy, one won’t know that the organisation crumbled, especially after they are gone.Leaders will have to raise their awareness that loyalty to them is not necessarily loyalty to the organisation.

Family businesses in particular (including even large conglomerates in India) have traditionally treated such consenting voices as loyal and dependable, and have rewarded them more than the independent competent voices.In a world where disruption is the only certainty, without different perspectives, how would you innovate and mitigate risk?

Consenting voices treated as loyal, often cast, at least subconsciously, independent competent, differing voices as disloyal.A Team That Appreciates Dissent

This calls for shaping a cultural attribute.Such an environment will also attract, nurture, and retain top talent, creating a positive feedback loop.

Such attributes manifest in behaviours, actions, and choices and are rooted in mindsets, values, beliefs, and purpose.

When one questions a decision, the promoter-leader(s) usually take it as a lack of faith or disloyalty.

In almost every instance, the dissenters were not only ignored, but also exited from the organisation.

As the trust in the culture of appreciation for dissent builds, the differences can be resolved with data, reason, and principles — and humility and maturity that agreed upon course may not necessarily be the best.Does voicing a difference of opinion make an employee disloyal?

If colleagues in a team, irrespective of the role they play, can share different opinions, such teams develop innovative ideas and do better in managing risk.It opens stakeholder conversations, encourages healthy communication, improves collaboration, enhances problem-solving capabilities, intensifies engagement, team cohesion, and team effectiveness.Leaders also need to manage their own egos that fall for consenting voices — a tough ask indeed.He summarised that in almost all cases, there were persons loyal and dedicated to organisations (not necessarily to the leader) who raised their hands and pointed out the folly of decisions advocated by those in power.Dissent helps bring out different perspectives in a controlled environment, and within the confines of the organisation.Just think if you are a part of such an ecosystem.

Representative image.

It would be liberating and insightful to ask who are the incompetent consenters generally loyal to — to the leaders, or to the organisations, or to themselves?No more.

Walking the talk with humility is the most effective way to energise the layers of management, and inspire and demand commitment to getting better at living similar values.Good leaders would build their organisation with the full obligation to dissent to be a core value.


Fininfluencers | Existing regulations enough to rein in fraudstersFininfluencers claim to be financial experts and dole out ‘expert’ knowledge, skills, trading techniques, and advice.Starting from blog writers, who graduated to ‘free’ websites of their own, which in turn gave way to their migrating to social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, etc.There are also countless social messaging (telegram, discord, etc.) groups that claim to offer ‘hot tips’.If they give personalised advice, regulations guiding investment advisers are enough to punish them.

What is needed is a mechanism where the identity of those who run advice groups and channels that give tips on social media and private messaging platforms is clearly determined.For this, it is important to make a distinction between the army of fininfluencers trying to make a mark out there, and those outright fraudsters preying on the gullible investor/trader.

Action against them would depend on how transparent they are, their diligence, whether they promote dubious investment, whether their own deals are contrary to their recommendations, etc.

In short, setting examples of a few and giving harsh punishment using existing provisions may be a sufficient deterrent.

The other mode is to offer a ‘free lunch’ by hot tips of securities claimed to be undervalued.This will make it clear that such fininfluencers are unregistered, they do not have the prescribed qualifications, and are not licensed to give financial advice.If it is through subscription to a social media channel, the advice may be of low value as it is spread over large numbers.The message of caveat emptor – buyer beware – would go loud and clear.

The question then is how to focus an investigation to tackle social media-based frauds and malpractices.There are extensive regulations for research analysts, which can be used against fininfluencers if they recommend securities.False statements purposefully made to induce people to deal in securities are specifically considered as fraud under the FUTP Regulations.The encouraging news is that SEBI already has extensive surveillance and intelligence gathering techniques, and are making them even more sophisticated.

The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is rightly concerned about the rapid and unregulated growth of financial influencers (aka fininfluencers).The 2020 case where SEBI fined two persons for sharing unpublished price sensitive information (UPSI) is an example of how not to tackle the issue.Instead a better course may be to, with minor refinements, to focus on better enforcement of existing regulations.Many such well-meaning fininfluencers are not interested in pushing a scrip or even giving recommendations for a fee.Except that soon after the purchase, the market for the security vanishes, and can be sold for a fraction, if at all.

The website, in turn, makes money through advertisements, subscriptions, data mining, etc.These require a different form of regulation.

These offences invite penalty, debarment, or even prosecution.

Those who watch such videos by fininfluencers are surely paying for it — the question is how?If it is sponsored, and this is disclosed, the bias would be as obvious.

What has led to a spike in their numbers is Internet penetration across the country which has meant that a person at a remote corner of the country has a level playing field with those in urban centres.The fraudsters were also quick to hop on.

One way they raise money is through monthly subscriptions, which is graded upwards depending on nature of recommendations.Giving false, reckless or careless advice is also an offence under Regulation 4(1)(k).The accused faced action because they allegedly shared price-sensitive information through the personal messaging app.These range from those who claim to be well-meaning financial educators to downright frauds.For those who are not registered, they could be required to insert a short disclaimer in their videos — say of 45 seconds, prepared by SEBI itself.Giving advice while knowingly concealing the associated risk is again a specific offence.However, among these are also those who give a sample video to promote their full educational courses or other subscription-based products.However, the existing regulations can tackle most of these issues.On the other hand SEBI has carried out some very clever investigation using innovative means resulting in convictions that held firm even in appeals.Representative Image.



However, the kneejerk reaction of issuing more and detailed regulations should be avoided.India already has ample regulations to deal with this challenge.The fake mutual fund sites which SEBI recently has expressed concern about are just one example of the fraud.The other category is that of the well-meaning fininfluencers.Yet another category are those who are sponsored by a corporate house, a fund, etc.There are elaborate regulations to deal with it.Even Internet-based fininfluencers have been around for a while now.They capitalise on greed of easy money, and attract subscribers through various means.The more their followers, the more views for their videos, the higher they earn from the host website.In the case of any violation, details will help easily nab the culprits.More regulations will not help.


Union Budget may propose 100,000 km of new railway tracks: ReportLaying the new tracks will be part of a new vision document for the national transporter and will be done in phases over 25 years with a new track construction target of around 4,000 km in FY24 itself.

The new lines will be constructed keeping in mind the requirements of high-speed and semi-hi-speed trains, such as new-generation Vande Bharat trains that can touch 180 kmph.

Representative image

The Union Budget is likely to propose laying of 100,000 km of new railway tracks over the next 25 years, according to a report by Mint.The new tracks will modernise the network and boost train speeds, the report added quoting people aware of that matter.

The budget for new tracks may also be doubled to over Rs 50,000 crore, the report added.

The budget is also likely to set aside Rs 10,000 crore to electrify 7,000 km of broad gauge line in FY24 and will complete the electrification of the entire network.

In November, ET reported that the government is also likely to announce 300-400 new Vande Bharat trains in the Union budget for 2023-24.

Cargo growth is estimated at 8.5-10% this year and is expected to grow to 12-14% per annum as the railway routes are decongested.

The Railways said it recorded a freight revenue of Rs 13,560 crore in November 2022, as compared to Rs 12,206 crore clocked in the corresponding month last year.


Macro signals for sector-allocation and the other way aroundEvery time the economic cycle turns, a new set of sectors comes into favour This time, thanks to the pandemic and subsequent monetary policy intervention, in a matter of less than three years, we have gone through an almost complete economic cycle FMCG has started outperforming BFSI in the last few weeks, indicating investors are still cautious In 2022 so far, there has been a wide divergence in the fortunes of investors.This makes sense when we look under the hood and...


The emerging contours of US-China hegemonic competitionHighlights The Riyadh meetings are an unmistakable signal that the old Oil-Treasury-Wall Street alliance that came into being in the late 1970s is dead The China-US competition is about economic surpluses and subtle hegemony through investment flows and technology Beijing is tying together Central Asia, Iran and Russia through its investments Nations like India and Saudi Arabia are playing off the US against China and Russia As China’s President and General Secretary Xi Jinping visits Saudi Arabia for the first China-Arab States Summit and...


How farmers can grab a bigger slice of the agriculture value chain It is also developing an online trading system Since farmers are producers, warehousers and marketers here, this disintermediation helps to improve farmers’ earnings substantially If FPCs and co-operatives take up such initiatives, farmers suspicion of “private” trade gets automatically...Highlights A farmer-led initiative from Maharashtra is paving the way for long overdue changes in India’s rigidly controlled agricultural markets A Farmer Producer Company (FPC) – the Sahyadri Farmer Producer Company – is in the process of building India’s first licensed private agricultural market yard


Banks shouldn’t ask for tax breaks, but sell more in the countrysideHighlights The IBA has asked for interest earned on fixed deposits of up to Rs 5 lakhs to be made tax free Banks are worried that their deposit growth is not keeping up with loan growth Another key statistic bothering banks is the ratio of small savings deposits to commercial bank deposits have risen to 5.8 per cent from 4.4 per cent over the last five years But banks have a huge branch network that the others do not They should tap the branch...


Personal Finance: Who needs a travel budget anyway? Representative image

Planning a vacation on a budget sounds like an unnecessarily limiting way to start what is otherwise a fun, recreational time that one looks forward to.The winter break is around the corner and while unplanned spontaneity can be fun and adventurous, when it comes to your travel finances it can lead to unexpected over-spending.If you are already familiar with this vacation overspending experience, why not try out a travel budget this year?


High valuations may slam the brakes on Indian equity rally in 2023“But in the medium term India will do much better because of the compounding opportunity of growth.”

Here’s what to expect from Indian markets in 2023:

Valuation Challenge

While India has been a standout market this year, with the NSE Nifty 50 Index up above 7%, compared to an 18% slump in global stocks, it remains the most expensive in Asia.“This informs our decision to stay long dollar-rupee.”

Index Hope

Bond investors are looking for India to be added to global indexes after JPMorgan and FTSE Russell held back from such a move this year, citing operational issues that still needed to be resolved.

“With tighter liquidity weighing on demand from banks, market absorption of the heavy supply could be challenging.”

Issuance Recovery

Rupee-denominated bond sales by Indian companies are set to revive next year as issuers shift from bank loans to notes that offer more savings.Representative image

Indian stocks that offered a refuge from losses that plagued global equity investors in 2022 look set to lose momentum next year as sky-high valuations weigh on market enthusiasm.

Rupee Headwind

The Reserve Bank of India is likely to use every opportunity to rebuild its reserve stockpile as inflows return to emerging markets, a move that could weigh on the rupee.

“Bonds will be a preferred route for borrowings next year as the yield difference with banks’ lending rate is widening,” said Ajay Manglunia, managing director and head of institutional fixed income at JM Financial Ltd., who expects overall rupee bond sales to rise by as much as 25% in 2023.Companies have sold about 8 trillion rupees ($97.1 billion) of domestic bonds so far this year, little changed versus the same period last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

“India is likely to lag any pro-cyclical rally elsewhere, but we appreciate this consistent delivery,” analysts wrote in a recent note.

“We think central banks that have a low level of reserve stock and/or have seen a significant deterioration in their current accounts, including India, Malaysia and Philippines, will use the opportunity to replenish reserves, thereby limiting the scope for appreciation,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts including Danny Suwanapruti wrote in a note.“We are cautious on India due to high valuations,” Jefferies Financial Group Inc. analysts including Akshat Agarwal wrote in a note this month.

That’s the consensus from analysts and strategists, who also expect the rupee to underperform emerging-market currencies broadly and the nation’s bonds to benefit from inclusion in major global indexes.

“Trade balances are likely to be double-squeezed next year between high energy imports and lackluster exports,” a team including Meera Chandan wrote in a note.“Fiscal consolidation could be rather limited due to 2024 being an election year, and thus, we expect GSec supply is to remain relatively heavy in 2023,” strategists Eugene Leow and Duncan Tan wrote Tuesday.Strategists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said they this means Indian’s equity market performance will likely slip behind China and Korea next year.

If there is some recovery in global growth and sentiment, over “6-12 months some of these markets that have become oversold may do better than India because India has outperformed so much in the last 18 months,” said Hiren Dasani, managing director at Goldman Sachs Asset Management.Global funds sold index-eligible Indian sovereign bonds for the first time in seven months in October after JPMorgan refrained from including the debt in its gauge.

“We will see companies preferring bonds next year as borrowing costs stabilize given most of the central bank’s interest rate actions have been factored in.”But that increase in borrowings is also one of the reasons DBS Bank is underweight Indian government securities next year.



Both T. Rowe Price and Nomura Holdings Inc. favor corporate bonds in India’s renewables sector next year.Nomura analyst Eric Liu pointed to widened yield spreads, ESG considerations and supportive policy measures as some of the reasons for “attractive investment opportunities” in the sector, according to a recent note.That’s helped cushion the currency’s drop to about 10% against the dollar, keeping losses in line with emerging Asian peers.

The blue-chip benchmark trades on just under 20 times forward earnings estimates, compared to around 13 times for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.

Still, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts see further pressure on the currency in 2023 thanks to India’s trade position.

India’s monetary authority has seen a $83 billion drop in its reserves this year as it sold dollars to support the rupee and its other foreign holdings went down in value.


Cash Trade | A double-bottom breakout is seen for Navkar CorporationPropping up valuations through buybacks no substitute for good performance

In today’s edition of Moneycontrol Pro Panorama: Economic churn brings new sectors to forefront, gig jobs replace permanent employment, banks should tap branch network for deposit growth, advance booking is key to any travel plan, and more


Options Trade | A non-directional options strategy in NMDCPropping up valuations through buybacks no substitute for good performance

In today’s edition of Moneycontrol Pro Panorama: Economic churn brings new sectors to forefront, gig jobs replace permanent employment, banks should tap branch network for deposit growth, advance booking is key to any travel plan, and more


Gujarat Poll Results | National party stature a big takeaway for AAPApart from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, the others are the Trinamool Congress, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the Communist Party of India, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the Nationalist Congress Party, and the National People’s Party.

In less than a decade, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is all set to attain the status of a national party, courtesy Gujarat, the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah.

In the final tally, AAP secured five seats and a vote share of over 12.9 percent.

AAP leaders cite the outcome of the 2017 assembly elections in Punjab to suggest that the party would get to form the government in Gujarat in the near future.

According to rules, a political outfit requires two seats and 6 percent vote share in four states to get the stature of a national party.In the final election results in the hill state, AAP secured just over 1 percent vote share.

Its previous best was 127 seats in the 2002 assembly elections.

It has visibly impacted the grand old party in the tribal belt, and in many seats in the Saurashtra region.

Though AAP leaders, especially Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, talked about unexpected results in Gujarat, the ruling BJP swept the elections, registering its best-ever tally of 158 seats in the state.In the middle of the Gujarat campaign, the elections to the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) were announced, a move seen as an attempt to restrict Kejriwal to the national capital.

Kejriwal used the buzz created in the media to the party’s favour.

Soon after its astounding victory in Punjab, AAP went all guns blazing in neighbouring Himachal Pradesh.Contesting three elections simultaneously also led to resources crunch for AAP with its lone crowd puller Kejriwal having to frequently shuttle between Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, and Delhi.

His primary target was to dislodge the Congress as the main opposition party, and to some extent succeeded in doing so, at least in the battle of perceptions.

The party also secured over 3.9 million votes in Gujarat.

The Prime Minister and the Home Minister insisted that Gujarat has had a history of bipolar politics between the BJP and the Congress, and that there was no scope for a third party.

The BJP bagged 104 seats despite a strong anti-incumbency against it.

AAP secured five seats and a vote share of over 12.9 percent in Gujarat.It required two seats and 6 percent vote share in Gujarat to reach this milestone, and got more than that.The idea was to challenge Modi on his home turf.

AAP expected to sweep the MCD polls but barely managed to scrape through with 134 out of the total 250 seats.The Gujarat outcome might not have been on the expected lines but it has provided a ground for AAP to work for improving its prospects in the 2027 elections.That said, the national party stature will give a major boost to Kejriwal’s expansion plans.Winning the MCD elections was an equally huge challenge for AAP given that the BJP had ruled the civic body for 15 consecutive years.Right from the day Kejriwal decided to enter the Gujarat fray, it was widely expected that AAP would cut into Congress’ vote.It has also set its eyes on Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, where assembly elections will be held in November-December 2023.(Image: Reuters/File)




MC Interview: RBI must make stance neutral once 4% inflation is visible, says HSBC’s Bhandari“If in the next year you are not able to see inflation at 4 percent and then you change your stance to neutral, you end up giving a sense to the market that you were not serious about the 4 percent target in the first place,” said Bhandari in an exclusive interaction with Moneycontrol.

If in the next year you are not able to see inflation at 4 percent and then you change your stance to neutral, you end up giving a sense to the market that you were not serious about the 4 percent target in the first place.

Our sense is that food inflation could fall to about 4 percent but core inflation could remain well north of 6 percent.I think coming under 6 percent will be visible from the start of the next year but 4 percent is still very far away.

Edited excerpts:

Yesterday’s rather hawkish stance and commentary from the RBI, has it changed your expectations or you are still sticking to the 6.5 percent terminal repo rate?

At some point, if growth begins to slow next year, we will get some relief on core inflation provided no big shocks come our way.

They always give a one-year-ahead inflation forecast and as long as the one-year-ahead does not show 4 percent, I think they should continue with the current stance.In my forecasts too, I see disinflation in FY24 and much of this is coming from a favourable base effect and food inflation coming down.

How serious should the RBI be on the 4 percent inflation target?

We are seeing export volumes beginning to fall now and my sense is that on the margin the reliance on domestic growth to keep GDP growth high will increase next year.



Going by global headwinds, will FY24 growth be a domestic story?

How do you view this private capex revival?

When you look at a lot of capex indicators such as cement, steel, and project goods, they all are doing very well.Do you get a sense that they have brought this just to drive home the point of their ultimate goal of 4% inflation?

Relief of food inflation and some deft supply management by the government could ease the RBI’s burden.

The growth-inflation trade-off becomes very clear when we talk about core inflation.Food inflation has fallen a lot since October, about 80 percent of the food basket has started to see some moderation in momentum.If overall global growth is going to weaken in the next year as is our forecast and we see export volumes slowing in many parts of the world, it will hurt incomes here too.

Therefore, the reliance on food inflation will be more in order to engineer a disinflation.

All of this has implications for core inflation too.

As the economy was getting out of this pandemic by 2021, this year we had this large commodity price shock and that shock is still in the system.

First, it hit goods inflation, and now services inflation is coming up.Even before global inflation took off, our inflation was high and sticky.In a way, our inflation accelerated even before global inflation took off.The private sector capex is not coming from new intentions, so it is mostly replacement.

So my sense is that the day we see the one-year-ahead forecast at 4 percent, that day we can see a neutral stance.On the one hand, you have growth impulses around the world slowing but on the other hand, when China comes out of lockdowns and starts growing, we have to see where it takes oil prices.

Next year we will have headline inflation below 6 percent.It will be controlled even better next year because it is a pre-election year.

The remaining then is the core inflation, about 45 percent of the basket.Therefore, this 5.7 percent is significant because in my view potential growth right now is about 6 percent.How optimistic are you about private consumption resilience when you look at the growth numbers?

Bhandari believes that the stubbornness in core inflation is more challenging now for the RBI as increased formalisation has raised the pricing power of large firms.The obvious answer could be the public sector but state governments have dialed down on capex even when the Centre has ramped up.

The divergence between food and core inflation will become amplified.Then it raised rural inflation because rural has more volatile components of oil such as bulk diesel and ATF (aviation turbine fuel) that are not controlled by the state.We should see the MPR (monetary policy report) in April to get a sense of the RBI’s forecast.

Growth will slow in FY24 to 5.7 percent with exports and private consumption moderating.I’m bringing in the external sector element here because a lot of inflation have been driven by imports, mainly crude.It is the outcome of climate events which we have no control over but also supply-side management which is in the hands of the government.

So prices are hiked but not brought down quickly if there is pricing power.

We will see capex on the back of that pick-up.

When should they move to a neutral stance according to you?

But Pranjul Bhandari, chief India economist at HSBC, believes that the central bank struck the right note.

But as rural is coming off, while urban is rising.

There is volatility in commodity prices, and difficulties in forecasting inflation and policy action.All of this has played havoc with food inflation and expectations.The Reserve Bank of India’s monetary policy stance surprised markets on Wednesday with its hawkish tone even though the increase in the repo rate was a relatively benign 35 basis points (bps) after back-to-back 50 bps hikes earlier.The RBI is being conservative but I would not change any forecasts on oil alone.

A lot of pass-through has happened and is happening even as wholesale inflation seems to be cooling off a bit now.This led to core inflation springing up suddenly.How do you read the RBI’s statement on core inflation?But there is another big player, which is food inflation.I think in the next couple of months the year-on-year numbers will also reflect this.If food inflation is managed, then the RBI’s job becomes that much easier.The RBI assumes a $100 per barrel price, are they overestimating at that level?

This is what is driving up steel, cement, and other indicators.

I think this 46 percent of the basket is going to be controlled well by the government.That is important because the RBI wants to make sure that the transmission continues and does not reverse.

It all started with the lockdowns in 2020.

So they are bringing it to the table.

I am sticking to the 6.5 percent forecast for the terminal repo rate.I think private consumption has had a decent run in the last couple of years because of how pent-up demand, particularly for services, has played out and is still playing out.Should we rein in our optimism?

Our forecast for FY24 GDP growth is 5.7 percent.



This part of inflation is extremely volatile and unpredictable.

The main question to ask is, why is inflation in India sticky?

The persistence in core is from this structure of the industry and I think this is getting more and more ingrained in the system because of the formalisation that has happened.I think there are a lot of moving parts in the core.The RBI’s $100 per barrel does sound a little high because the current spot prices are lower but to be honest, it is very hard to get a strong handle on where oil prices will be.There was a lot of emphasis on core this time and I think there are two reasons for this.This time it is far more amplified since for two or three years the regular annual replacement capex did not happen because of the pandemic.I think they are seeing that core is sticking out, it has remained elevated.While consumption has been decent, along with other sectors it would also start to slow next year.The story of private capex revival should be viewed with caution, she said.There is yet another shock that is playing out which is climate change-related shock—the heat wave of March, volatile rains during the monsoon, and untimely rains in October.It is 46 percent of the CPI basket.Disinflation in food does not have to come at the cost of slower growth.India has really ramped up exports in the past couple of years and if this slows, we could see incomes in industries focused on exports fall.Many informal firms shut shop and because these were dealing with essentials such as food, clothing, etc, there was a supply disruption.I think a lot of solace comes from this part of the basket.That brings us to private sector capex.We need balance sheet strength, and macroeconomic certainty for capex to thrive.The stage is set for a new capex cycle to start.So when you add all this, there isn’t a great push towards capex coming.The second reason is that the ultimate aim was to dial down on the rate hikes but continue to sound hawkish.Fast-moving indicators also show capex is strong.On many fronts, in exports and private consumption, there will be some slowdown next which we will have to live with.The fact is that large firms have gotten larger during the pandemic period and they have pricing power.I think this government has been nimble on the supply side.You have pointed out that capex is largely a replacement.We had expected that they will do a 35 bps rate hike and dial down on the size of the hikes.There will be base effects at play here too since WPI is coming off from high levels.This is the right way when you don’t want to hike but also ensure that the transmission continues.


Cash Trade | ICICI Bank can get a new leg-up to an all-time highPropping up valuations through buybacks no substitute for good performance

In today’s edition of Moneycontrol Pro Panorama: Economic churn brings new sectors to forefront, gig jobs replace permanent employment, banks should tap branch network for deposit growth, advance booking is key to any travel plan, and more


Synthetic rubber prices drop, but demand not picking upThe rubber products industry is looking for a demand boost as cheaper synthetic rubber and declining prices of natural rubber have helped to lower production cost.

Also Read: Rubber prices hit 2-year lows but revival hopes keep tyre stocks in the green

Synthetic rubber (SR) prices, which surged with the intensification of COVID-19 and the outbreak of the Russia-Ukraine war, have now declined.Logistic challenges

Towards the end of last year when demand picked up as COVID-19 cases subsided, the Indian rubber products industry faced logistics difficulties because of poor container and ship availability and escalating freight rates.

India’s SR production is mostly confined to styrene butadiene (SBR), poly butadiene (BR) and some quantities of butyl rubber, while several other varieties, such as ethylene propylene diene rubber (EPDM), polychloroprene and silicon rubber, are fully imported.

“The original equipment manufacturer (OEM) tyre sales have been weak and the replacement tyre segment for commercial vehicles has also not done well, probably because of too many holidays,’’ said Rajiv Budhraja, director general of Automotive Tyre Manufacturers’ Association.

Here's why rubber prices are heading to the Rs 200/kg mark

Why is demand not picking up?

While the tyre sector, the largest consumer of both forms of rubber, is facing subdued demand, the non-tyre segment is witnessing a buoyancy in activities.“By that time, the current high-cost inventory will be exhausted and we will be able to make tyres with cheaper raw materials,’’ he said.

As per Rubber Board data, SR production went down by around 5 percent to 155,645 tonnes from April to July 2022, compared to the same period of the previous year.As a result, the availability of SR grades has improved and prices have dropped, making it easier for India to import,’’ said Shashi Kumar Singh, vice president of All India Rubber Industries Association (AIRIA).Domestic production up, but imports still needed

Though India’s production of SR has gone up in recent times, the country still imports several grades.We have demanded the implementation of a uniform GST rate of 18 percent,’’ Singh said.

While rubber components have a GST of 18 percent, there are complaints of some companies charging 28 percent for those that are used in automobile parts.They have now dropped by 30- 40 percent,’’ said N Rajagopal, MD of Ceyenar Chemicals.

But the anticipated demand has not materialised for the tyre industry.

“Overall, the situation in India for the non-tyre rubber industry is much better despite funding problems.India currently produces around 65 percent of its SR requirement and the rest is met by imports.

A rubber tree (Representative image)

In 2021-22, SR production in India, at 485,165 tonnes, saw a 13 percent increase year on year (YoY).The freight rates have eased and availability of ships and containers has improved significantly now.

While the second and third quarters of FY23 are likely to remain below par, Budhraja expects an improvement in sales by the last quarter.

The footwear and pharma industries are the two other major sectors that use SR.

Also Read:In the non-tyre segment, a lot of SR-based components, such as oil seals, and extruded and moulded equipment, are used as automobile parts.So, the tyre industry has not been able to make full use of the slump in SR prices.At the same time, SR consumption in the country increased by over 10 percent during the period to 263,780 tonnes.SR prices went up as much as 80 percent after the war started.Passenger car radials use more SR than natural rubber.


Govt unveils $30 billion plan to upgrade grid for clean powerRepresentative image

India unveiled a 2.44 trillion rupee ($29.6 billion) plan to build transmission lines to connect renewable generation, as it aims to nearly triple its clean-power capacity by 2030.

The transmission plan includes building transformers and high voltage lines to carry power long distances, as well as laying submarine cables to ship electricity from offshore wind projects.

“The plan presents a very large opportunity to the industry and is absolutely crucial to India’s renewables ambitions,” said Vijay Chhibber, director general at lobby group Electric Power Transmission Association, which represents the private network companies.Private transmission companies have been lobbying New Delhi to allocate all projects through competitive bids, rather than the current practice of giving some to state-run Power Grid Corp. of India Ltd. without competition.

As the nation embarks on its path to net zero by 2070, it needs to address this shortfall so that clean power can flow to urban and industrial hubs that are often far from generation sources.

It will help boost India’s inter-regional transmission capacity from 112 gigawatts to 150 gigawatts by the end of the decade.

India has a generation capacity of 173 gigawatts from non-fossil fuel sources and plans to almost triple it to 500 gigawatts by 2030.The project will connect solar plants in the sun-drenched deserts of Rajasthan and Gujarat and wind farms in Tamil Nadu to the national network, the power ministry said in a statement.


Gujarat shows an invincible BJP, Himachal Pradesh exposes chinks in its armourIt shows that if the Congress gets its local leadership right, it can win — a slender margin, but a respectable one in a small state.

This is a pattern seen in many assembly elections where the voters go with the BJP at the Centre, but a different party at the state level.

This lacuna, along with infighting with state units, could drag the party in future state elections.

No Tall Leaders: Taking from the earlier point, blame it on Modi’s colossal image, the BJP does not have many tall local leaders — leaders who can carry the party on their shoulders; with Yogi Adityanath being a notable exception, and Himanta Biswa Sarma being another.Without booth-level management, focus on local leaders, and lack of a state-level campaign strategy, the grand old party did not even put up a fight.That the Congress leadership is clueless is reflected in the statement made by Congress’ Gujarat in charge, Raghu Sharma, when he said earlier in the day that “surprising results will come in favour of the Congress party.It has managed to retain about 27 percent of the vote share, but from the heights of where it was in 2017, this is a steep fall, and what a disgrace!

If the Congress decides to focus on the border state at a later point, will AAP repeat this performance or do better?

AAP Phenomenon: AAP is celebrating its performance in Gujarat, and winning about 13 percent vote share is commendable — but its claim that it has put up a fight against the BJP is a bit misleading.This is a decisive mandate, and to draw a parallel to a recent event, the BJP has done in Gujarat what AAP did in Delhi in 2015 (when it won 67 of the 70 assembly seats).

The assembly election results for Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh show that in electoral politics there are two Indias: One in which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s juggernaut continues to steamroll the Opposition.AAP is upbeat, and has shown that it cannot be written off — but it will be further tested as it ventures out into other states, far removed from Delhi.

The results of the Gujarat election 2022 will be remembered for two reasons: First, the BJP recorded its best-ever performance in the state.As focus shifts from here to the state elections in 2023 and the general election in 2024, all parties will have their work cut out for them; it will be the hardest for the Congress.Looking at the results, here are four points to consider:

The Modi Factor: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is currently the most popular politician in India.The verdict in Himachal Pradesh shows that Modi’s popularity cannot trump local issues and might not be a substitute for a weak local leadership.The Congress leadership has let down the 41 percent of Gujaratis who voted for the party in the 2017 elections.Wait for the final results”.

In that sense the Gujarat results partially reflect a trend seen in the past two general elections.This further adds credence to the allegation that AAP is eating Congress’ buffet.

It took over the space of the Congress, firmly cemented its position, and has now dislodged the BJP as well.

In Conclusion

While it is celebrating a historic mandate in Gujarat, the BJP will do well to introspect as to why it lost in Himachal Pradesh.To borrow an analogy Rahul Gandhi used in 2013, and tailor it to the current scenario: for the Congress to achieve electoral success at a national scale which will make a difference, “ the escape velocity required is that of Jupiter.While publishing this article, the BJP is leading in 150+ seats, with a vote share of above 53 percent.Rahul Gandhi cannot be blamed for the defeat in Gujarat, just as he cannot be congratulated for the success in Himachal Pradesh.

As seen in Himachal Pradesh.

The voters there have rejected its flawed and problematic electoral claim of a ‘double engine sarkar’.Supporters of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hold their party symbols and flags as they celebrate in Gandhinagar.The Congress has been criticised for not routing the yatra through the poll-bound states — but to blame it for the debacle in Gujarat would be unfair.(Image courtesy: REUTERS/File)

While the victories add to his political allure, the defeats cast a shadow — which should pose the question: Is the BJP overplaying the Modi card?The BJP’s victory in Gujarat shows that irrespective of who the candidate is, and whatever be the ground situation, people will vote for Modi.The BJP fights election-after-election projecting Modi, and therein lies the problem.This is because the BJP’s vote share and number of seats have increased.By his yatra skipping Gujarat, Gandhi might have avoided a direct confrontation with Modi (which would have worked in the BJP’s favour), but what about the other leaders in the Congress?Anti-incumbency, infighting, corruption allegations…nothing seems to be affecting the electoral prospects of the BJP.Blame It On Bharat Jodo Yatra: Much has been said about the necessity and timing of the Bharat Jodo Yatra led by Rahul Gandhi.This shows that where the Congress is ready to put up a fight, AAP will find the going tough.The Himachal Pradesh results paint an opposite picture.


ESIC funds for equities an overdue decisionRepresentative image

The Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) has been authorised to invest up to 15 percent of its surplus funds in equities, through the vehicle of exchange-traded funds (ETF), much like its sister organisation, the Employees Provident Funds Organisation (EPFO).Unlike conventional insurers, it also runs its own health services consisting of clinics, hospitals and even some medical colleges.

Given the success that the EPFO has had with equity investments, it was inevitable that the ESIC would also dip its toes into equity investments, although, in fact, it took longer than it should have.A few months ago, Investment data about EPFO investments was tabled in Parliament a few months ago show that total investments in equity of Rs 1.59 lakh crore had grown to Rs 2.27 lakh crore, yielding a gain of Rs 67,619 crore.Despite their small share in the overall asset base, the 13.6 percent return is a decent counterweight to the weak returns of fixed income.

Looking at this sterling performance, the only surprise in the ESIC’s announcement is that the body will only invest 5 percent of its surplus funds in equities initially, and gradually raise it to 15 percent.For such investment funds to not take advantage of the growth potential of equities makes little sense.

This does not tell us much about the returns, but the parliamentary answer also had some more details of the inflows over the seven years that the EPFO has started with equity.

This is excellent, especially because the bulk of the assets are in fixed income and will likely have generated around 6.5-7.5 percent return over that period.In fact, what the data actually shows us is that the real risk lies not in the equity part but in the fixed income part.Making some assumptions, I calculated that the equity returns over the period were at an annualised rate of 13.6 percent.An organisation like ESIC being able to play a more robust role in handling this cost for its members would be of greater value in the future.

In fact, the higher growth will always come pre-packaged with volatility and if you want one, you must put up with the other.

Traditionally, the objection to these bodies investing in equities came from the fear that money belonging to workers would be lost in ‘speculation’ when markets decline.With the enormous rise in chronic diseases, as well as the ever-higher cost of healthcare, the returns generated by ESIC take on a larger importance than in the past.Under fixed income, the real (inflation-adjusted) growth of the corpus must be around zero.In any kind of macro situation, it makes little sense to keep long-term money entirely in debt.It has taken years for the reality to sink in, that is, as long as overall grow this higher, volatility is fine.The growth potential from equity exposure is now well-proven in the case of EPFO.I say sister organisation because these are two social security organisations run by the Labour Ministry, despite being essentially financial services outfits.The EPFO and the ESIC are the ultimate long-term investors, with their inflows and outflows quite predictable over years and even decades.One should point out that the EPFO has already gone through this trial and error, and there is no logical reason for this diffidence.




India chases clean energy, but economic goals put coal first“The way coal is priced, subsidies are leading to higher air pollution from power plant emissions,” said Sunil Dahiya, an analyst at the Center for Research on Energy and Clean Air.

Representative image

In the shadow of a retired coal-fired power plant in India’s capital, Meena Devi tries to make her family home — four brick walls with a tin roof — a safe place to breathe.

While the central government gives poor families a small subsidy for cooking gas as a cleaner alternative to firewood, the main energy subsidies go to consumers of gasoline and diesel, mainly benefiting the middle class, and to producers, transporters and processors of coal as well as utilities that burn coal.



After pledging billions of dollars for oil and gas exploration and the expansion of coal, the Modi government says it plans to pivot away from energy subsidies — but starting with the cooking gas, the subsidy that most helps the poor.“Energy security is my first priority,” India’s power minister, R.K. Singh, said at a recent forum, explaining the government’s commitment to burn more coal.

“If you didn’t have gas,” he added, “all hell breaks loose.”

Half of emissions in Delhi, ranked as the world’s most polluted capital, come from vehicular traffic, but there is little incentive to drive less.The investments have boggled advocates of green energy, but officials say India’s ambitious economic growth targets — reaching annual gross domestic product of $5 trillion before the end of the decade, up from $3.2 trillion in 2021 — can be met only by sharply increasing dirty and cleaner energy sources alike.

“We went into the transition, green, sustainability thing with a degree of passion that was almost religious fervor,” Hardeep Singh Puri, India’s petroleum and natural gas minister, said in an interview.

“It defies all logic.”

As it has for many countries, the war in Ukraine has made India alert to its dependence on foreign energy, particularly oil.“India is pivotal to the future of global energy and climate policy,” said Amy Myers Jaffe, an energy and climate expert at the New York University School for Professional Studies.They also explain how free cooking gas canisters and subsidized gas in recent years have helped them control the environment in a small way for their children, and the consequences when there is no money for gas.

“Their emissions trajectory will be material on whether global emissions can reach net zero by midcentury.”

India’s environmental record is mixed at best.It has driven down the costs of renewable energy to some of the world’s cheapest rates, which should mean less smoky skies over New Delhi and other cities in India rated as having the world’s worst air.

Reliance and Adani, the largest coal supplier in India, have net-zero goals and have pledged tens of billions of dollars toward green energy projects.

“I will not compromise on the availability of power for this country’s development,” he added.

“But you’ve got to survive the present to be able to make a realistic transition,” he said.

The government has opened up close to 1 million square miles of territory, including pristine coastal areas and offshore waters, for natural gas and oil drilling, drawing the attention of Exxon Mobil, Total and Chevron.

India’s subsidies for fossil fuels were nine times the size of clean energy subsidies in 2021, according to the International Institute for Sustainable Development.

And a broad lack of regulation could mean far greater emissions before coal power peaks.

Around Delhi, only two out of a dozen coal-fired power plants follow the rules.

India’s pledge to achieve carbon neutrality by 2070 leaves ample space for coal-powered generation to increase even as cleaner energy sources gradually take up a larger share of the energy mix.That suggests that the problem of India’s hazardous air quality — and tens of thousands of premature deaths it claims each year — could get much worse before getting better.

Devi is in the crosshairs of a global challenge: how to bring power to the world’s poor and fight climate change at the same time.

India is sopping up foreign direct investment in green hydrogen, so called because it is produced with renewable energy.

Although the smokestacks at the plant went dormant years ago under a court order, there is no shortage of hazards in her air, ranging from vehicular exhaust to construction dust to ash from crop stubble burning in adjacent states.

In India as in many other countries, political and economic considerations have yielded an energy strategy of simultaneously pursuing clean energy and burning fossil fuels, an approach that ultimately puts security ahead of climate.The investments in fossil fuels belie the increasingly compelling economics of renewable energy in India.

The move most likely helped the government avoid the political tumult over high gas prices and shortages seen in neighboring Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Nepal.

Yet Modi’s government has offered to finance a new coal-fired plant near the capital, part of an extensive pipeline of new coal infrastructure.Sometimes it is Devi adding to the smoke with wood fires she burns when her husband, a house painter, has no work and the family has no cash to refill the cooking gas cylinder.

Despite pledges at climate conferences to lead the world’s transition toward green energy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is in full expansion mode on the fossil-fuel front.“My children say, ‘Please, Mummy, do not light the chulha — I can’t breathe,’” said Reshma, a construction worker and mother of three who goes by one name.Coal plants normally function for 30 to 50 years.

It subsidizes publicly traded Coal India with $2 billion a year.

Moreover, renewables make up 40% of the country’s installed power generation capacity and are targeted to grow to 61% by 2030.

Emissions from the dozen coal-fired power plants still operating around the New Delhi region feed a toxic smog that hangs over the city each winter, imperiling people of all backgrounds.India’s national oil company, ONGC, is adding renewable energy to its portfolio, and Coal India has proposed setting up solar parks in reclaimed mining areas.Yet India’s projected energy demands include an astronomical rise in oil, gas and coal consumption.India will soon have the largest population of any country, so its choices will be critical not only for the health of its citizens but also for the prospects of limiting global warming to a sustainable level.

We’re not the only ones contributing to pollution.”

The average coal-fired power plant in India is 14 years old, compared with a global average of 20.“My throat burns, and the kids are not able to breathe when I’m lighting the chulha,” Devi said, using the Hindi term for a wood stove.Yet many millions more in the country of nearly 1.4 billion get bad air with little benefit.

Renewable energy in India rose to 163 gigawatts in August from a few megawatts in 2010, according to the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis, a research group in Cleveland.“Contrary to that, they are trying to add one more plant,” he continued, referring to the Modi government.Cheaper crude has also allowed New Delhi to protect its people from inflation by keeping pump prices low.

In 2015, India’s coal-fired power plants were ordered to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide.“The entire world knows that Delhi is a critically polluted region,” Dahiya added.


